Annie Johnson, Maryan Osman, and Fatuma Abdullahi
 Not a lot of people become a mom at 28 to teenage daughters. So, the learning curve has been steep.
 Yeah. (laughs) What do you remember most about meeting me?
 You just walked up to me with all of the confidence in the world, stuck your hand out there and you’re like ’Hi, I’m Maryan.’
 (laughs)
 ’How old are you? Are you old enough to be a mom?’ You kind of, like, looked me up and down and sized me up a little bit.
And I remember, Fatuma, when you just so shy, and quiet. Which was okay, because we were so nervous.
 Yeah.
  What’s it like to live in a family that has such a different culture?
 Here the neighbors, so quiet, you feel like you’re living by yourself.
 (laughs)
 Even in the jungle … (laughs) … animals made sounds, but here the sounds you heard is only the cars.
 The funniest thing is teaching you guys weird American sayings. Like, ’beating a dead horse.’…
 Yeah (laughs)
 That’s a fun one.
MO: Why would you beat a dead horse?
 Exactly.
 It’s already dead!
 That’s the whole point.
 Also, it’s funny when you’re learning Somali.
 I can say I love you, which is … Waan ku jeclahay.
 I love how when you say, “What’s your name?”
AJ:  (laughs)Magacaa
 It reminds me of when I was learning English, when I would speak in funny ways.
 Yeah.
 Hey mom, have you ever got scared for me?
 Uh, yeah. Last year around your birthday, when you had some panic attacks. I went to the school and there were firemen there, and all the teachers were surrounding you. I was scared for you, because you were really struggling at that time.
 I kind of got overwhelmed about my past. And, uh, I remember, that you told me that, ’I am always there to talk to you.’ And you hugged me a lot. That was awesome.
 Yeah, you like to be hugged.
 Yeah. The best thing I love about you guys is no matter what I do, you still forgive me and give me chance to move on.
 It’s hard being a mom, you doubt yourself a lot. You don’t know if you’re doing things right. I’ve learned a lot about patience. And I’ve learned a lot about love. You guys have just given so much joy and meaning to my life.
 Thank you.
 I love you so much. So happy that you are my daughters.
