Scott Kohanek (SK) and Catherine Kohanek (CK)

SK: Our relationship started in a grade school. We met each other at Kenwood Elementary in Minneapolis. I was a custodian, and you, Catherine, were a Special Ed teacher.
CK: I remember watching you move around the school. You were sliding down the banisters, poppin bubble gum, and I used to think, They’re watching you, man, you have to be a good example to these kids. And then I watched you with your guitar, getting in the classrooms, singing and getting so involved with the kids. And so I asked you a question that you told me later a lot of people had asked: Why aren’t you a teacher? And then I found out that you didn’t think college was meant for you, or you could cut it. And then we started to talk, because the teacher in me came out, I had questions for you, wayward boy.
SK: I was always ready for a conversation with you. It was the best time of my day.
CK: I would sit there and do my paperwork at the end of the day, watch the clock and I could hear you coming down the hall cause you were pushing the big rolling garbage can.
SK: People would often say, You look like youre in hurry. Well, I had things to get done because I knew exactly what I wanted to do, go hang out in your room.
CK: And when you came in and emptied my trash, you would always sit down on the counter by the door.
SK: It was a favorite place of mine to sit, with my feet up on the chair. Then our conversations would go on for hours and hours.
CK: I remember thinking, oh my gosh, I think I’m falling in love, this isn’t good. I remember that.
SK: And then there came a time when I realized that my path was seriously going to change. After eighteen and a half years of being a custodian, I stepped into a college for the first time.
CK: And I remember when you first started college, you were pushing your garbage can and you came up to me and you were really, really excited. You had written your first paper and you had gotten an A. Do you remember that?
SK: It was the scariest thing I had ever done. And when it came time to get a job, I went back to Kenwood as a second grade teacher and thats where I’ve been ever since. So, it became obvious
CK: What became obvious?
SK: That we that were going to get married. So why did we get married at Kenwood school?
CK: Well, of course were going to get married at the school. I do remember asking you, What do you want? And knowing that it would be unconventional.
SK: We got married, in the lunchroom and served milk and cookies.
CK: And then the students always go, On the stage? Yeah, where we have the school store. Yeah, on that stage. It’s funny you know, you and I both work there and now we take our kids down to the lunchroom and you know, Get in line kids. And every once in awhile I just turn my head and I glance up at that stage and I just smile.
