
 We went into a room and there was a stretcher there
 He came in with something of a flourish, and he had his valise
 And the first person was brought in and strapped down given an electroshock.
 He had a instrument to me it looked like a nail, a great big nail.
 It was silver.
 It looked like a screw-driver, only a sharp point.



 And then he held the ice pick parallel to the nose
 slip it under the eyelid.

 Through the orbit of the eye.

 And then he’d shove it up into the forward part of the brain.
 and then he did the other side.
  He took the probes, he put his hands on each one and then he twirled them kind of in an eggbeater fashion for a little while in the frontal part of the brain.
 And then he would take a picture of it.
 Then he just took hold of each probe and pulled it with a big yank and that was that.
 It took between 7 and 8 minutes it was very quick.
 the patient went out, the next patient was ready to come in, and had his procedure done, and then the next patient came in.
 There was total silence among those of us who were watching.  It was riveting.

 This is Walter Freeman, MD PHD, I am 72-years-old now

 In the past four weeks I’ve come 7000 miles chasing up patients

 Lobotomy was done at that time .
 Well Hi.  
 Hi, how do you do
 I’m Frank Freeman
  Howard Dully.

 Pleasure to meet you by God

 We had several ice picks that just cluttered the back of that kitchen drawer.  And the first ice pick came right out of our drawer.  A humble ice pick- to go right into the frontal lobes it was from a cosmetic standpoint, it was diabolical.  Just observing this thing it was horrible, gruesome 
 
 My father decided that there must be a better way.

 I guess you could call it a magnificent obsession… I’ve never been able to sit down and talk with one of my father’s patients. Been a darn good experience to meet you.
 It’s opened my eyes some.
 Oh great.
 I was age 12 when I had it
 Good heavens…
 I still haven’t sat with my father and talked about it
 Yeah hmmmyeah.
 So are you, are you proud of your father?
 Oh yes.  Yeah, yeah.  He was terrific.   He was really quite a remarkable, pioneer lobotomistI wish he could have gotten further yeahOk  Happy Trails everybody. 

 
 She was absolutely violently suicidal beforehand.  After the trans-orbital lobotomy there was nothing it stopped immediately.  It was just peace.  I don’t know how to explain it to you, it was like turning a coin over. That quick. So whatever he did, he did something right.

 He was just a great man. That’s all I can say.
 Do you remember what his face looked like mama?
 I don’t remember.
 Do you remember his office?
 I don’t remember that eitherI don’t remember nothing else, and I’m very tired.
 Do you want to go lie down.  I remember sitting on his lap and his beard was pointed and it was very soft. As a child you kind of see into people’s souls and he was goodat least then I don’t know what happened after that.   I wish he hadn’t gotten quite so out of hand.


 This is a boy of 19 a dreamy sensitive individual interested particularly in the current musical idiom of bebop. Trans-orbital lobotomy was performed on August 1.

Within a few days the patient resumed playing the saxophone. Hallucinations subsided
  It was a terribly crude procedure.

 There were some very unpleasant results, very tragic results and some excellent results and a lot in between.
 Why do you think the procedure became so popular?
  Well primarily because there was no other way of treating people who were seriously mentally ill. The drugs weren’t introduced until the mid 1950s in United States and psychiatric institutions were overcrowdedthey were willing to try almost anything.
 Hmmm
 I think the problem with the whole lobotomy period was that it spread like wild-fire; that there was a lot of publicity, a lot of exaggerated success initiallythere was a lot of demand for the operations because there were many parents and family members who were desperately in need of help and not getting anyand it spread not only to seriously ill patients but to a lot of people who were not that seriously ill
 The operator lifts the upper eye-lid

 Hello.
 Hi.
 I’m Howard Dully.
 Hi.
 Good to see you.
It’s good to see you.

 That’s when the fun began.

 Did she worry about stuffnope didn’t worry. Just as Freeman promised, she didn’t worry.  She had no concept of social graces if someone was having a gathering at their home she had no problem with going in to their house and taking a seat toonot a problem
 There you go
 Will you hand me Anna Ruth’s picture from back there. That’s her. Is she pretty?
 Beautiful woman
 She was so smart, she was so smart but she had no place to put it.  The only outlet she had was beating every pinball machine in town and knowing how many pennies were in the jar at the carnival, you know.  She was the greatest playmate we ever had, and the best friend, and we loved her to death but I never remember calling her Mama, or Mommy or anything.I never even thought of my mother as my daughter’s grand mother.   And I never even took my daughter to see her.  Not one timeso she never even got to have that.   DULLY: So needless to say if I ask you that if you think about this a lot would be an understatement.
 I make sure I never forget.  Do you ever wonder how come it is, that we’re at the age we are and we can’t seem to say, “ok that was then, this is now.”
Why are we even why are you bothering?
 Because it’s not ok.  It’s not finished.


I tell you it gave me a sense of horror.  How would you like to step into a psychiatrist’s office and have him take out a sterilized ice pick and shove it into the brain over your eyeball?  Would you like the idea?  No.


 Hello.
 David Anderson?
 Yes I am
 Howard Dully.



 If you’d go ahead and fill this out .


 “Mrs. Dully came in to talk about her stepson who is now 12-years-old” 

 “Mrs. Dully called up to say that Howard has been unbelievably defiant with a savage look on his face and at times she is almost afraid. He doesn’t react either to love or to punishment.  He objects to going to bed but then sleeps well.  He does a good deal of daydreaming and when asked about it he says,‘I don’t know.’ He turns the room’s lights on when there is broad sunlight outside. He hates to wash”  Ok…  

 October 26, 1960: “Howard is a rather tall, slender, somewhat withdrawn type of individual.  The first interview today was largely a matter of getting acquainted.  He told about his paper-route which brings him some $20 each month.  And he’s saving up to get a record player. Howard is rather evasive about talking about things that go on in the home”
November 30th, my birthday: “Mrs. Dully came in for a talk about Howard. Things have gotten much worse and she can barely endure it. I explained to Mrs. Dully, that the family should consider the possibility of changing Howard’s personality by means of transorbital lobotomy. Mrs Dully said it was up to her husband, that I would have to talk with him and make it stick.”
December 3, 1960: “Mr and Mrs Dully have apparently decided to have Howard operated on.  I suggested them not tell Howard anything about it.”
December 17, 1960: “I performed transorbital lobotomy.”
This is the physician’s service report. “Transorbital lobotomy: a sharp instrument was thrust through the orbital roof, and moved so as to sever brain pathways in the frontal lobes.  200 dollars for surgery” So the whole thing was 200 bucks.  Well, that’s pretty cheap.  How fantastic.
January 4, 1961.  “I told Howard what I’d done to him today and he took it without a quiver. He sits quietly, grinning most of the time and offering nothing” And I was supposed to fight all this.  No way. Twelve-year-olds couldn’t stand against all that It just wasn’t fair




 I’m here with my dad.  I’ve waited for over 40 years for this moment, thank you for being here with me.
 I tell you anything that needs to be answered.
 OK, so we’re here to talk about my trans-orbital lobotomy.  So how did you find Dr. Freeman?
 I didn’t.  She did.  She took you. I don’t, I think she tried some other doctors who said, “nah ah, there’s nothing wrong here” ya, ya, ya, “he’s a normal boy”. It was the stepmother problem…
 My question would be naturally, why would you let it happen to me if that was the case?
 I got manipulated pure and simple.  I was sold a bill of goods. She sold me and Freeman sold me.  And I didn’t like it
 Did you ever meet Dr. Freeman.  And what was he like?
 I only met him I think the one time. He described how accurate it was in that he’d practiced the cutting on literally a carload of grapefruit, getting the right move and the right turn. That’s what he told me. 
 Have you ever seen a picture of the operation?
 No.
 Would you mind if I showed you one or

 The thing I’m intrigued by is how you look so calm.
 Is there anything in this that you regret at all?
 See that’s negative.  And I don’t dwell on negative ideas.  And what am I talking about?
 The positive.
  I always try to be positive. I don’t make it always.
 But this has, this has really affected my whole life.
 Nobody is perfect. Could I do it over again, would I haveoohhhhh hindsight’s beautiful. Fifty years later I can say this was a mistakeSo was World War I a mistake.
 So why do you think it’s been so hard for us to talk about this, in your estimation?
 Largely because you never asked about it, you never asked about it. It was an unpleasant part of my life and I don’t particularly want to delve into it.

 Well I want to thank you for doing this with me, I really do.  I never thought that this would ever happen.
 Well you see miracles occur.
 Actually what I wanted to do was tell you that I love you.
 Whatever made you think I didn’t know that.  You shaped up pretty good!
 And I feel very happy about that.
 That’s what I wanted to hear.


 I don’t know who could have perceived this procedure as a miracle cure. The only thing I see that came out of it was hurt and pain for a lot of people.
  

 You’re all dressed up today.

 I personally think that something in Dr. Freeman wanted to be able to conquer people and take away who they were

 What was that song mom, remember?

 She’s there, but she’s not there.

 Basically, it’s been so painful I’ve tried to stay very far away from it for a long time.  Kind of like if you leave it alone it will go away.  But it never goes away.
 So what has changed your mind about hiding from it?
  You. Do you know how many people you’re championing?  Do you know how many people that can’t do what you’re doing and you’re doing it for them?
 It does wonders to know that other people have the same pain.
 The loss
 The loss you that can’t ever get made up




 That’s it!

 ”My Lobotomy” was produced by Piya Kochhar and Dave Isay at Sound Portraits Productions.  The editor was Gary Covino.  Special thanks to Larry Blood. Major Funding for “My Lobotomy” was provided by the Corporation for Public Broadcasting.  With additional support from the National Endowment for the Arts.
* Larry, a psychiatric ward attendant at Herrick Memorial Hospital in Berkeley, CA in the 1960s, who requested that his last name not be used
