Ceceley Chambers (CC) and William Chambers (WC)
CC: What went through your mind when I said, do you want to come to work with me and visit with some seniors?
WC: My original thought was, “Oh no.”
CC: You’d rather stay home and play video games?
WC: Well, I was a little afraid. Then when I got there, I really liked it.
CC: Why did you like it so much?
WC: I liked it because they were very thoughtful. They were very accepting.
CC: They were very happy to see you weren’t they?
WC: Yes. And, I was very happy to see them.
CC: I remember the first day I took you. We sat at this long table and I was helping feed a resident, who couldn’t feed herself, and you sat at the end of the table with another resident, who just started talking to you, and you just jumped into her world. You didn’t try to correct her. She had a baby doll, and she thought the baby doll was real. You didn’t say, ‘Oh no, that’s just a doll.’ You just went with her.
WC: I think people are free to think whatever they want to think. They don’t need to believe in what other people believe in.
What have you learned from the residents?
CC: I think I learned about the importance of being present, and the beauty of just little small moments.
WC: They made me think, you should enjoy life as much as you can cause it doesn’t happen forever.
Do you think it was hard to say goodbye to them everyday when you know they may die sometime soon?
CC: It was hard. There’s no doubt about it. Every time I left there, I knew that there’s a chance that one of them wouldn’t be there when I got back the next week.
Do you think that your experience coming to work with me will affect you in the future?
WC: I do.
CC: You can say no. (laughs)
WC: I think before, I wouldn’t think as much about the world and how hard it can be. And I wouldn’t, I wouldn’t be the same person.
CC: Do you like the person you are today because of that?
WC: I really do.
CC: Yeah, I think that’s really important.
WC: I like the person they’ve helped me become.
