
KO: Tell me about your childhood in Mexico.
FO: We were so poor, but I used to say my mother kept the best dirt floors ever—
KO: [laughs]
FO: —They were the cleanest dirt floors in the planet. My parents came here first working at horrible jobs just to send money to us. And they left us with an aunt. I didn’t see my parents for about three and a half years. And I was just such a, like a, wild little crazy kid. You know, literally they would have to chase me around to bathe me. Anda lot of that is because I would sit at night crying for my mother.
KO: When she left you, did you know that she did that because she loved you more than she loved herself?
FO: I didn’t know that then, Kaya. I was just a kid who missed his mother. 
KO: Yea. So when you came to United States, what age were you?
FO: I was nine. I remember the night a car came for me. My auntie — I didn’t even fight her — but she gave me a beautiful, warm bath. She had a white, crisp shirt she ironed for me with a little clip-on tie, a black one. And when she said goodbye to me, she touched the window of the car, blew me a kiss, and she said, “Go change the world.”
KO: So, what was your proudest moment?
FO: One day at college, a professor of mine says “Hey, I have these guys that are struggling.” So they gave me kids to tutor and this kid calls me to have a beer. He says, “Hey. I wanna meet you down at this bar.” So I go down. This guy grabs my arm and he says to me, “I want to thank you for helping me, I couldn’t have done it without you.” And as I’m walking away back to campus, I am flooded with this emotion. And I’m like “why am I feeling this way?” and I realize I came to this country as a poor non-English speaking immigrant kid and I was teaching how to write. And for the first time in my life I felt like I belonged here. 
KO: You know, I can’t relate a whole lot to you, I grew up having all these opportunities — and I don’t want to be closed off in a bubble my whole life and you’ve opened that bubble up for me. I want to thank you for that. I act like I’m too cool for you or whatever, but I’m so proud. 
