Tanya James (TJ), :Michelle Paugh (MP), and Trista James

 My dad passed away when I was 17. My mother still had to take care of the family and so she decided to take the mining class. And I’d go down with her every day. The instructor said, “Well if you’re going to come down here every day, you might as well take the class too.” She started in the mines, and six months later I started in.TJ:
When I was younger I remember watching you get ready and go to work, wondering if you was going to come back home that night or not. MP: 
 I understand how you girls felt. I know what it feels like to have your mother in the mines. And it could be a little rough. So I was pretty protective of her even though I knew she could protect herself. I seen her pick up a guy by the neck [laughs]. So she was a tough cookie. I was taught at an early age from my mother: if you don’t fight for yourself ain’t nobody gonna do it for you.TJ: 
When I was hired, a lot of people thought the only reason women wanted in the mines was to find ‘em a man. And for the first six months you’re not allowed to be by yourself. I remember one time they sent me and this one man back into a part of the mines that nobody goes into. And he started getting a little too friendly. I told him, “Don’t touch me.” Well the third time he approached me, he put his hands on my shoulders and when he did, I just brought my knee up. I hit him true and hit the mark [laughs]. And he went down, rolled and cried and throwed up. He got the point. He never bothered me again.
You had to make them respect you. You had to prove yourself daily. But I don’t believe in stuff being handed to you. I think you need to work for everything you get. If it ain’t worth working for, it ain’t worth having in my opinion.
 You kind of brought us up a little the same way.MP:
 I think you’ve proved to me more than once that you’re not going to let anyone run over you, and I’m proud of you for it.TJ:
 You’re an extraordinary woman and I’d like to be one one day too.Trista James:
