Sara Littman (SL) and Joshua Littman (JL)
SL: I thought I was gonna cry the whole way back from college but I managed to make it until I got home. And then I walked upstairs and I saw your door shut and I just lost it.
JL: Well at least you had the dogs.
SL: Yeah well, the dogs aren’t my kids. You know…
JL: But they snuggle with you when you’re feeling upset.
SL: They do but it’s not quite the same. Does it bother you to think of home?
JL: I miss it.
SL: Yeah.
JL: I miss the dogs and everything.
SL: You miss the dogs?
JL: And you, and…
SL: [Laughing]
JL: What? Wouldn’t you miss the dogs?
SL: I miss the dogs but I think for even political sake I might say, ”I miss you mother” first. [Laughing]
JL: So how was it when you went to college?
SL: I think I was a lot more excited about leaving home than you were. I did have some rocky times where I was homesick but I made some really good friends in college, and that’s … I guess that’s why I want you to get out of your room. Is it just you’ve been feeling overwhelmed a bit?
JL: Yeah.
SL: So, that’s ok. Maybe when you get your feet under the desk a little more as they say.
JL: Yeah well, I have no idea why am I’m in college. ’Cause I … I don’t know why I’m there.
SL: Well, remember how a few years ago you hated sushi?
JL: Uh-huh
SL: And now, like all you ever wanna do is eat sushi.
JL: Mm
SL: Sometimes you have this resistance to trying things and then, when you try them, you end up really liking them. And really I just want you to do more of that when you’re at college. Just like take that chance.
JL: So how would you react if, like, I failed?
SL: Failed your classes, or…?
JL: Failed my classes, failed college.
SL: Well, if you came to me first and said, ”Look I’m having a really tough time.”
That’s one thing. But if you just sort of announce to me that you failed, then I’d be upset. Because I know how much potential you have. Is there anything you wanna tell me?
JL: What do you mean?
SL: Or was that a hypothetical question?
JL: That was like a hypothetical question.
SL: Ok.
JL: Yeah.
SL: All right.
JL: So, do you think I’ll move out of the house when I’m done with college?
SL: What do you think?
JL: Well I don’t know, like, maybe I’ll move to Denmark or something.
SL: Well that’s where you were telling me that’s where people are happiest, right?
JL: Yeah.
SL: Hopefully you won’t move so far away that it’s really hard for me to come to visit you. You know, I’m really so happy to have you home. I miss you a lot when you’re not there.
JL: Yeah. I miss you as well. As well as the dogs and everything.
SL: Yeah. Make sure you do write to me, okay? ’Cause … ’cause I love you and I worry about you. Make your old mom’s life a little easier. Deal?
JL: Mm-hm
SL: All right.
