Alexandra Ketcham (AK): My mom was diagnosed with uh, breast cancer in 2002. And she had just left her company, so she lost health insurance. So she had to sell her house to pay for it. She sold her house and rented your dad’s house. So they found out that they both have single kids in their twenties.
Steven Ketcham (SK): Uh-huh
AK: And they decided that we were perfect for each other.
SK: The first time I met your mom, she came up to me and said, ”It’s a pleasure to meet you. My name is Nadia. I’m going to be your future mother-in-law. The first words out of her mouth.
AK: And we hadn’t even met yet.
SK: And we hadn’t even met.
AK: So my mom invited you to dinner. And the second I found out about it I said, ”Call him up. Disinvite him. You’re not setting me up.”
SK: And I was pretty disappointed about that as well because I remember my step-mother had showed me pictures. And I was like, ”Wow. She’s really cute. I would love to get to know her.”
AK: They had to find another way for us to meet.
SK: They concocted this story, my father wanted me to go an help him move our stuff out of the rental property. And then your mother showed up with you. But we didn’t really hit it off that first day.
AK: My mom called you everyday that week to get you to the house to help her move. So we spent a week together. Long, long hours… And by the end of it, we were dating.
SK: You know, your mother was diagnosed actually when we first started dating.
AK: Yeah. We met because of her diagnosis.
SK: Yeah. And then she passed a couple years later. But it bonded us together cause we were forced to either support each other or just move on.
AK: Right. And when mom died, we bought the house.
SK: You know, I think our parents, they realized that if we worked at this, we could create something beautiful.
AK: So today is our wedding day. We got married around noon in city hall.
SK: I don’t even think I said, ”I do.” I said, ”Of course I do.” Um, because that’s how I felt. You know, I don’t think I’ve ever been so certain about anything in my entire life.
AK: I’m the luckiest girl in the world. And will never let you out of my grip.
