
AM: How did you feel when you learned that Malik had autism?
CJ: It was like a shot in the gut. I thought my son would be non-verbal, that he would never say I love you, but when he started talking he wouldn’t shut up.
AM: What’s the hardest day you’ve had with Malik?
CJ: It’s not his bad days that are hard, it’s my bad days that are hard. I remember when I started cutting his hair, I know the sound of that metal grinding scares him, and he’s fighting me. I got so frustrated, and I forced him, like I held his head, and I could see it hurting him. And then afterwards I broke down and then he came to me and he says, “Dad, don’t worry about it, I’ll be okay next time.” It was a stain on my brain for a long time. And I’m working on it. I’m a work in progress.
AM: I’ve learned, like patience, you’ve got to have it. In the beginning, just with my son was tough. Now you fast forward to having my daughter. And when she’s two, she gets diagnosed. Two kids on the spectrum. It’s like a heavy load, like picking up a mountain. And back then, I was in a shell, I wasn’t even explaining how I was feeling.Then there happened to be an autism event, and I seen you there with Malik. That was the first time we met.
CJ: Yeah…
AM: After that it’s been totally different. Just the fact that you’re not alone dealing with this. That right there changed my life, period. How do you think people see your son?
CJ: Well, I’ve got to tell you, I have a lot of concerns for him. My son right now is 12 years old and he’s 5 foot 9”.
AM: He’s tall.

AM: Right.
CJ: But my fear for him has been that somebody sees him, and they interpret his body language as something that it’s not. So even with a smile on his face he’s going to be threatening to people.
So let me ask you, Anthony, um, as a police officer, do you have concerns for my son?
AM: You know, I do, yes. My son too. 
CJ: That’s why the best thing I can do is teach him what’s socially acceptable, and what can be misperceived as a problem. I hate to have to teach him those things, and I don’t want to take his innocence away either, but in time he’ll know. And you know what? Who he is today, I never thought he’d be, so I know there’s possibilities for him.
