Paul Braun (PB) and Philip (P)
PB: Do you remember the first day that we met?
P: Oh you scared me, dude. Your attitude in the beginning and with your mohawk…
PB: I scared everybody with that mohawk.
P: You told me, if you try to mess with my soldiers, I will shoot you.
PB: And what did you do?
P: I was smiling at you [Laughter]
PB: You smiled at me and said, “Some day, we will be able to laugh about this conversation while we’re drinking tea.” And that’s when I knew, I think this guy’ll be ok. We started to trust you and since you fought with us and you bled with us and you lived with us, you became us. And my Iraqi interpreter became my American brother.
P: And my American soldier became my Iraqi brother.
I used to hate Americans. You are our enemy, and that’s it. And you’re the only one who changed my mind. With you, I was talking about the similarity between us as people. It’s just about being human there or here.
PB: I remember sitting down one day thinking, I didn’t want to leave you alone. I knew how dangerous it was for you because we saw all those people that were murdered for being interpreters, and I was so afraid that that was going to happen to you. And it took years to get the proper documents to get you over here.
P: And I’m lucky to make it here.
PB: You have three daughters, and a son, and a wife.
P: Yeah.
PB: I’m waiting for that day that you are able to bring them over here.
How do you feel about having to go back to get your family?
P: I’m scared, actually, because of ISIS. They control the roads and it’s dangerous.
PB: I hate to ask you: what do you think your odds of being able to make it back alive are?
P: Let’s make it 50/50, man. Like, really, 50/50.
PB: It’s frustrating hearing you talk about the dangers that you’re going to go through over there and not being able to go with you to help you. As you helped me, I wanted to be able to help you back.
P: I appreciate you to saying that, but really, you can’t. Just pray for me, that’s it. I love you brother.
PB: I love you too, brother. Inta akhoy. [
INTERPRETER: Habibi [
