Eileen Kushner (EK) and Larry Kushner (LK)
EK: Raising the kids, we had no extra spending money.
LK: Sometimes, for food, it got pretty tough. And I said, “How about going to talk to Carl at the McDonald’s? Maybe he could hire you.”
EK: And I said, “Carl, I’d like to make french fries and make your shakes for you. I’ll be the best employee.” And he said, “You’re hired.” I remember coming home, Larry, and I was so excited, dancing around, “I got a job.”
LK: In those days, there were no computers. If a customer wanted a hamburger, fry, and a Coke, you manually had to add it up.
EK: Exactly. I had done such a good job and I was starting to feel really good about myself. Until one day Carl leaded [sic] me over to a counter and said, “Eileen, this is your next responsibility.” And in my mind, I knew that I wasn’t able to add. I thought I was going to die.
I went home that night, crying my eyes out to you and saying, “I’m gonna quit, Larry, because I don’t want them to know that I don’t know how to count the money back.” And you said to me, “Eileen, you’re gonna be ok.” You came home and you brought singles, five dollar bills, and coins, and we started playing McDonald’s. Do you remember?
LK: I sure do.
EK: I would stand on one side of the table in the kitchen and you stood on the other and you would pretend you were a customer. And the following day, I went back and asked if I could please have some Big Mac boxes, some fry boxes, and some cups.
And then every day, Larry, with your help, I learned it. Larry, thank you. You opened up my world.
LK: I just opened the door for you. You took the ball and ran with it, though, after that. Do you see yourself differently today than you were 30 years ago?
EK: I learned a very valuable lesson from Edison. After he invented the lightbulb, this young gentleman came up to him and asked him, “How did it feel to fail over 2000 times?” Edison said, “I never failed once. It was a 2000-step process.” And this is what my life has been, Larry, more than 2000 steps. But we made it.
LK: We did.
EK: We made it.
