Mary Warm (MW) and David Warm (DW)
DW: Mary who was, uh, who is the most important person in your life?
MW: My sister. I really look up to her, and she is a great person no matter her room is messy.
DW: So you remember when you were young and on Friday nights you and your sister and I would dance in the living room? We’d take out the coffee table and turn up the music and we’d get on our backs and be like bugs? (laughs)
MW: Yes
DW: Is there something about me that you’ve always wanted to know but you’ve never asked me?
MW: Yes Dad. How did you feel when I was born and how did mom feel?
DW: Well that’s a complicated question. Um, we didn’t know we were going to have a little girl so that’s the first thing we thought we were really pleased to have another little girl. And then when we learned you had down syndrome I think we both decided that we had to figure it all out and, so we went to classes and we read books and we talked to other people. But about 2 months later I think we just kind of relaxed and realized we just needed to raise you with love and teach you like we did your big sister and everything would turn out alright and I think it has.
MW: Um, you tell me I’m special all the time. What makes me special?
DW: Well there’s a lot of things that are special about you. You know your mom and I we both really admire you because you are so positive, because you work really hard for everything that you get, and you go out f your way to make sure that everybody’s doing okay. Not everybody’s like that, in fact I told somebody just the other day that I want to be more like my daughter Mary when I grow up. Do you have other questions?
MW: No, I don’t. Back to you.
DW: Back to me, huh ? What one thing about me upsets you? I’m not sure I wanted to ask that (laughs).
MW: (laughs) Um, if you, like, tell me exactly what to do.
DW: (laughs) So you don’t like it when I raise my voice, huh?
MW: Yeah.
DW: Are there some things you want to ask me about you?
MW: Yes. What is your goal for me?
DW: What are mom and my goal for you?
MW: Yes
DW: Well, I hope most of all that you keep your sunny personality no matter what you do. And I hope you find somebody you love and have a family in whatever way you have a family. And we’re really looking forward to getting to know you as an adult, because you’ve been such a great kid.
MW: Thanks.
