

			
			












































			
					Yiddish playwright, actor, and linguist Nahum Stutchkoff (1893-1965) authored some of the most intensely emotional dramas ever broadcast on radio. Every week, his Yiddish radio plays portrayed a different fictional Jewish family struggling to adapt to life in America. Only 26 episodes from his long-running series  (Round the Family Table) survive. These recordings are as close as we’ll ever get to hearing what life was like in the tenements of New York City in the 1930s and ’40s.When not writing or acting in one of his eight weekly radio programs, Stutchkoff penned reference books, including a monumental Yiddish thesaurus that breathes with the linguist’s genius. The gift is as evident in Stutchkoff’s exhaustively versatile matzo commercials, which listeners loved almost as much as his dramas.
  McHale’s Navy, Perry Mason,  Chico and the Man.
 
 as The Magnificent Seven, The Misfits,  The Good, the Bad and the Ugly.
 Yentl, Sarava,  Lend Me a Tenor.  Kissing Jessica SteinLaw and Order, 
 

 
  Selected Shorts a
  Awakenings, The Boys From Brazil  Fame. The Ed Sullivan Show,The Stiller and Meara Show.
 Hurry Up Please, It’s Time, Sundays at noon in the late ’30s and early ’40s,  (Round the Family Table) aired on WEVD in New York City. Each week listeners were brought into the home of a Jewish family coping with the problems of immigrant life.While most dramas on the American radio dial offered escapist fantasies, Stutchkoff’s creations writhed with actuality. His characters were hewn from the stuff of real life, facing difficulties their listeners knew well: the alienation of the older generation, racism within the Jewish community, miscegenation, the conflicts between secular America and Jewish religiousness.Though a private man who worked in extreme seclusion, Stutchkoff felt bound to the community that was the source of his artistic inspiration.  His wife and children often found him crying at his writing desk over the fate of the radio characters he had just created. If he did not weep over them, he asked, who would?The 26  episodes salvaged by the  are the only of Stutchkoff’s half-dozen radio series to have survived. Not a single broadcast remains of  (People’s Troubles), Stutchkoff’s most popular show, which ran on WEVD for two decades and helped raise donations for the Brooklyn Jewish Home for Chronic Diseases. But one child actor on the program —  Isaiah Sheffer, host of WNYC’s Selected Shorts and the artistic director of New York City’s Symphony Space — remembers it well.“It was totally frantic,” Sheffer recalls. “Everything was last-minute and done quickly, with all the actors learning their parts along with Stutchkoff.” The writer-director often passed freshly penned lines of script to actors at the mike, a situation par for the course in the radio universe of Nahum Stutchkoff.
Bei Tate-mames Tish  ForvertsBei Tate-Mames Tish 
Bei Tate-mames Tish
In a Jewish Grocery 
One Thousand and One Nights  Shiker and Schlimazel
 Tsures ba Leitn Born in Brok, Poland, in 1893, Nahum Stutchkoff had an early and unerring ear for language. Speaking Yiddish, Polish, and Russian before he learned Hebrew in Jewish day school, Stutchkoff picked up French and German after breaking with his religious upbringing at 16 to join the Yiddish theater.In 1923 he boarded a boat to America and disembarked two weeks later speaking English, having read William Shakespeare, Mark Twain, and the  on the way over. But his greatest love was for the Yiddish language. His Yiddish rhyming dictionary, published in 1931, won him great renown among playwrights, intelligentsia, and the general Yiddish public.With the ink on the rhyming dictionary barely dry, Stutchkoff began work on a thesaurus of the Yiddish language — a Herculean endeavor to which Stutchkoff devoted increasing time and energy, while still writing, directing, and acting in eight radio programs a week. In creating this repository of twelve centuries of Yiddish culture and experience, Stutchkoff read virtually everything ever published in Yiddish — from religious treatises to literary works to daily newspapers, which he cataloged on 3-1/2 x 5-inch index cards his children can recall jutting from every pocket. This philological passion also served as the inspiration for two radio shows: , literally “mother tongue” — how native speakers refer to Yiddish —  and  (As Mother Used to Say).Published in 1950, the 933-page  (Thesaurus of the Yiddish Language) inventoried the culture’s every expression, from its most ethereal allusions to its juiciest vulgarities. The tome contained 392 synonyms for the word “hit,” more than 100 words and expressions for “chutzpah,” and seven pages of curses — inverted blessings, mostly, since cursing is forbidden in Judaism. (Example: “You should have a hundred houses; in every house a hundred rooms; in every room twenty beds, and a delirious fever should drive you from one bed to the next.”)Arguably the greatest one-man lexicographical accomplishment of all time, his thesaurus was a final, emphatic statement on the wealth of Yiddish, made at the moment the language heaved its last great secular sigh. After completing the thesaurus, Stutchkoff immediately embarked on his final lexicographic undertaking: a Hebrew thesaurus. Begun shortly after the establishment of the Jewish state, it marked an important moment in the modernization of the Hebrew language. He worked on it through his last days as a patient at the Brooklyn Jewish Home for Chronic Diseases, his one-time sponsor.Nowhere, perhaps, did Stutchkoff flex his linguistic muscle more than in his ad copy, especially for Manischewitz Matzo. For thousands of years matzo has been made from three simple ingredients — water, flour, and salt. Yet each time Nahum Stutchkoff pitched it, the bread of affliction came off as something different. It was “clear,” “burnished,” “pearl-like,” “thousand-flavored,” “crispy,” and “bright as the rising sun.” It was a model of modern factory production and a living link to the scattered tribes of ancient Israel. It was the path to culinary delight and the manna of spiritual sustenance.But Stutchkoff’s greatest matzo pitch was his starkly direct “Manischewitz Matzo” jingle, featuring the simply beguiling lyrics “Manischewitz Matzo, buy, buy, buy.” The song, so popular it was copyrighted and the sheet music sold in stores, was a regular feature on Stutchkoff’s WLTH children’s talent show, “Uncle Nahum’s Kidkins,” where the Barry Sisters, among others, got their start.

The lyrics to the “Manischewitz Matzo” song were transliterated so that the American-born kidkins could read them easily.
