Pedro Molan (PM): I saw there was a beautiful lady sitting in this party. And at first I thought that you were with somebody else so I didn’t get close to you. And then I realized that there was a guy who was bothering you. Hilda Chacon (HC): I was wearing like a short skirt and he insisted that I would go up the stairs so he would see me from behind. I was about to get into fight with him when you came. You apologized for him being so rude and drunken and I told you that I was divorced, that I had a kid, and I just started talking very poorly about men saying, ‘I don’t know why people get married—you have to put up with so much crap!’ How come I didn’t scare you? PM: I found you fascinating and I was…mesmerized I think is the right word? Asombrado. And after we met I thought about getting married. My friends were saying that I was crazy but my whole body is telling me, ‘You cannot let this go.” It is hard for people to believe that we only dated for…ten days? HC: Yep. And then all of a sudden you said, “Well, I don’t make much money but if you want, we could get married.” I thought, ‘This man is either totally crazy or has the biggest cojones on earth and something very important was how Nadia was going to react to your presence. She was six at the time and I remember that the two of you sat to watch a TV show and little by little she started leaning on you and then I remember she sat on your lap and put her hand over your shoulder. That’s how I picture the two of you. PM: We became a family… HC: We did. Even if you stop loving me tomorrow I could never pay you back for all of the love and affection you have given my baby. PM: I am a really proud stepfather. We haven’t stopped having fun since we met. HC: I know, I always wonder when people say, “Oh, every day things kill love.” I probably used to say that before I met you. But going to the market or paying the bills, don’t become chores but fun things that we do. I believe that we started a conversation twenty years ago and we have never stopped. PM: Yeah, I have the same feeling. These are the best years of my life. I wouldn’t change them for anything. HC: Love you, papito.
