DAVID ISAY:: 
ROBERT SHIELDS:: I can do this . . .
ISAY:: 
SHIELDS:: . . . and get all six typewriters without getting up. 
ISAY:: 
SHIELDS:: My diary is complete.
ISAY:: 
SHIELDS:: The entire day is accounted for. I don’t leave anything out. I start in at midnight and go through the next midnight, and every five minutes is accounted for:
12:20 to 12:25: I stripped to my thermals. I always do that.
12:25 to 12:30: I discharged urine.
12:30 to 12:50: I ate leftover salmon — Alaska red salmon by Bumblebee, about seven ounces — drank ten ounces of orange juice while I read the .
ISAY:: 
SHIELDS:: It’s an uninhibited diary. It’s tell all, show all. It’s spontaneous. I type it as it comes and I don’t correct it and I don’t edit it.
ISAY:: Do you read it?
SHIELDS:: No, because if I read it I wouldn’t have time to do anything else.
12:50 to 1:45: I was at the keyboard of the IBM Wheelwriter making entries for the diary. I typed diary entries since 3:00 this morning. I failed to mention that the Tri-City Herald weighed in this morning at one pound, eleven and one-half ounces. That was the heaviest paper we have had to my knowledge. It lacked only half an ounce of being one and three-quarters pounds. Think of it . . .
1:45 to 2:10 . . .
ISAY:: 

SHIELDS:: I just kept going and then I thought, ”Well, I don’t want to stop now.” And I kept going, and ”I don’t want to stop it now,” and I just kept it up.
ISAY:: Why are you doing this?
SHIELDS:: It’s an obsession. That’s all I can say. It’s an obsession. I don’t know.
ISAY:: What are you trying to do?
SHIELDS:: I don’t know. I really can’t answer that.
5:45 to 6:15: I read more from the . I ate half a dozen large Archway sugar cookies while I drank two cups of milk . . .
ISAY:: 

SHIELDS:: For DNA purposes. It might . . . in years to come they might be able to figure out my genetics from having a physical artifact.
ISAY:: What is this in your diary?
SHIELDS:: Oh, whenever we purchase anything, like meat, particularly, I peel the sticker off and put it in the diary. Because then there’s a record of how much we bought and what the price of it was.
8:35 to 40: I peeled meat labels from McCrory’s to mount in the diary. Bacon is up 20 cents a pound. T-bones are terribly high. I bought them to feed Dave Isay Sunday evening. I don’t . . .
ISAY:: 
ISAY:: How does your family feel about this?
SHIELDS:: I never asked them.
ISAY:: What about leaving town?
SHIELDS:: I don’t leave town. I haven’t left town since 1985, to visit my brother in Tennessee. I don’t like to be away overnight, because it gets me behind. If I travel to Walla Walla to do shopping, it puts me behind in the diary. I have to take notes all the time, and I get back and it takes me a day to catch up with the notes. So I avoid going out. I avoid being away.
3:05 to 3:30: I read the Tri-City Herald. A sniper killed two and wounded five at El Cajon California for no reason at all . . .
SHIELDS:: It’s my makeup, it’s my nature I suppose.
ISAY:: What would it do to you if you just stopped?
SHIELDS:: It would be like stopping . . . turning off my life.
ISAY:: 
SHIELDS:: 3:20 to 3:25 in the afternoon: I took the readings given in the margins. Humidity: fifty-one and a half. Porch temperature: fifty-six degrees. Porch floor temperature: fifty-one degrees. The study temperature: seventy-seven degrees. And the door temperature in the study, on the door jamb: seventy-four degrees.
