Frank Tempone (FT) and Jack Tempone (JT)
FT: Do you remember that time?
JT: Yeah, I was like the dad in the house… and like I took care of Dave and Ben sometimes and it was one of the hardest times in my life because I was without my best friend.
FT: I knew I was hurting you, but I felt like I had to get myself straightened out first before I could be your dad again. And I also want to tell you that I’m sorry that I caused you that pain when I left.
JT: It’s okay.
FT: That was a tough time but probably the proudest moment we ever had together was when I came back to watch you play that really important baseball game.
JT: The last game of the season.
FT: You must have gotten three hits, and I remember thinking ”We did that together.” You know, we practiced and that’s why you did so well. It made me realize, I was ready to make sure that I was going to be as good a father as I could possibly be, and that was the impetus that got us back together.
JT: I felt like I was in paradise again because like, I just feel I relate to you so much…and like, I regained part of my life.
FT: I wanted to tell you, my father used to say to me, I was his closest buddy, we did everything together, and he said I stopped being his buddy when I turned thirteen. And you turn thirteen in three-and-a-half months and so, I want to know if you’re gonna keep being my buddy past thirteen.
JT: I’m gonna be your best friend until I die.
JT: How does it feel when like when you know that you come from such a great family. It feels great. When I was a boy, dreaming about what it would be like to have a wife and a house, I was gonna name my oldest son Frank, cause that would have been the fourth Frank. But, I didn’t name you after me because I knew you were gonna be better. And the way you deal with people with your heart is…is something that I’ve learned a lot from. So Jack, I just want to tell you how proud of you, that I am. You are the best thing that ever happened to me. And, we’ll always find a way to come back together?
JT: Yeah. We’ll get through it as a family.
