
The date is Tuesday, May 20, 2003. The meeting is being held at the Oklahoma State Penitentiary, in McAlester, Oklahoma.

 : Hi, I’m Sue Norton. Few of you will ever be able to experience or understand the depth of the pain that I felt as I knelt down cleaning up the blood of my daddy.

 Mark Gibson is the D.A. where this crime occurred.
 Thank you Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, I think probably in seventeen years I have prosecuted twenty to twenty-five first-degree murderers. But in all those years, there’s only one other man, when I looked into their eyes, that I saw the pure evil that was Bob Knighton. In 1995, the day that they identified the Oklahoma City bomber, he sat in my jail and came into my courtroom. And when I met Tim McVeigh, I immediately said to the deputy outside, ”That’s the only other time I expect I will ever see the same eyes that I saw on Robert Wesley Knighton.”



 My name is Robert Whitaker, Assistant Attorney General on behalf of the State of Oklahoma. Ms. Norton’s plea is very interesting. Very touching. You can feel her struggle and her pain. There are people that need to have a heart for people in prison.
 
 Mr. Chairman, members of the board, my name is John Stewart. I represent B. K. Knighton. I have a unique situation. Sitting beside me is Sue Norton. She forgave this man, and has been a friend to him in prison since that time.

 As you all know, I’m Maudie Nichols. Richard Denney was my father. Sue Norton is my sister. And don’t you take anything wrong I say here: I love my sister. The only thing I really have to say is I forgave Knighton a long time ago. I still think he’s accountable for what he done. My sister’s forgiveness is so much stronger than mine. She has been with Knighton more than she’s been with me or my family. And, yes, I do miss my sister. And I don’t know what else I can say to you. But thank you for letting me say that much.
 
 All right, we’ll proceed to the vote. Miss Loving?
 Miss Bussy? Mr. Brown?
 And my vote is no.
 Clemency is denied. The State of Oklahoma Pardon and Parole board is now adjourned. The special meeting was adjourned at 11:17 am by Chairman Morgan.
 
