Wydenia Perry (WP) and Essie Gregory (EG)
WP: Girl, it’s been over 37 years since we’ve been traveling together. What are some of the most rememberable places that you’ve been to?
EG: Don’t ask me that questions cause every place I’ve been I’ve loved. We’ve visited over 125 countries, visited every continent except Antarctica, how do you expect me to narrow it down to one?
EG: Think about St. Petersburg, when we left Moscow to go to St. Petersburg, remember the overnight train?
WP: How can I forget that? When St. Petersburg was changed from Leningrad back to St. Petersburg…
EG: Right, all the people in the street going crazy knocking down all the statues of Lenin… That was something else, wasn’t it? When we step back and think about all the things that we visit… you know? Germany, with Eastern Bloc Europe…
EG: Yeah, I’m still fascinated about that wall they built. W: I got the piece of the wall. Did you get a piece?
EG: No.
WP: I got a piece. South Africa? E: South Africa. And we wanted to take pictures of the Parliament and it wasn’t allowed, and the guards were on us, immediately. Where did they come from?
WP: And Wydenia is so smart, she said, ”Well let’s take a picture of you all.” And they loved taking pictures so much, they were ready to pose. And when they posed over there they were standing in front of the Parliament, and didn’t realize.
EG: Wasn’t that smart?
WP: We got the picture. I thought that was kind of cute.
EG: Absolutely.
WP: You know when you sit down and think about it, we really had some adventures.
EG: Wasn’t that Fiji when I almost got married?
WP: That’s right, you promised to go back and marry that Prince.
EG: And remember I drank all that kava?
WP: I found out what kava is afterward, it’s an aphrodisiac.
EG: Yeah, I found out that night. I want you to know it was nice traveling to you to all those countries.
WP: We still got hundreds of more to do.
EG: We will continue to do it, yes we will.
WP: Okay, I ’ll see you on our way to Antarctica.
EG: Absolutely.
WP: Right.
EG: Don’t forget it’s my birthday.
WP: I know.
EG: And my 60th birthday.
WP: Something special right?
EG: Yes.
WP: Okay, I’ll get you a suitcase.
