

 I’m trying to keep this, as much as I can, like it would have been back then.
 
 This dinosaur here, I pulled a squirrel’s nest out of his mouth one day last week.
 
 What is it about dinosaurs that appeals to you?
 Well, first the fact that they are big, and they ruled the world for years, you know, thousands of years, millions of years. I just like ’em, just because they are unusual. Something different, I guess.
 
 I knew what I wanted as soon as I saw that. I said ”That’s what I want to do,” so I did it.
 
 What did your wife think of the idea?
 She didn’t like it at first. She wasn’t too fir it because we spent out life savings on it, you know, what we saved all our lives.
 
 Well, if you’re talking to him, he may or may not answer you. His mind is working on a dinosaur or something. He may never answer, he may not have heard you, he didn’t hear nothing you said, and you’re standing as close as we are.
 
 Did it depress you that not as many people came as you had expected?
 No, it didn’t really depress me. It kind of disappointed me.

 In the evening, or the mornings, I just saunter down through here, you know, and not go fast, just go slow and look ’em over. And if you’ve got a lot of imagination, you just feel like you’re back in time, you know. You can think what these things can do, or what they do when you’re not here or something. I like this one. I think, in your imagination, he’d move slow and sluggish, unless something scared him, or he was running something for food. In that case he’d be real fast. And if you’re walking down here, unless you’re a little kid, you know they’re not going to bother you, and so you can walk along and imagine all the good things about them. Now this is a Macedon. He’s a meat eater, he’s vicious, and this fur on his back . . .
 
 That’s a beauty.
 Yeah. These dinosaurs here, see that big one standing out — he’s looking right at us as we come down the trail — got his egg, like he’d fixing to take off running.
 If you could do it all over again, would you build the park?
Yeah, I really would. It’s my home.
 
It costs a dollar fifty for children and two-fifty for adults.
 
