Willie Harris (WH) and Alex Brown (AB)
AB: When we were starting, anytime they had a stunt to do with a black actor in ‘em, they would paint these white guys in blackface. And this was 1968, ‘69
WH: We wanted to prove that black guys can do stunts. But we couldn’t get anyone to train us. We had to train our own self.
AB: We had to learn how to fall, you had to learn how to throw punches.
WH: I remember being at this park every Wednesday night. And when we would get out there, the LAPD was already parked watching.
AB: Over there, yeah, to see what we gone do. They used to think that all these black guys doing jumping jacks and throwing punches out there…they thought we was—
WH: —we was the Black Panthers, we was militants and all of that.
AB: And they find out we just trying to get into the motion picture business. And, uh, over a period of years, the production managers began to let a few of us work. But, you know, you get on the set, they get to calling you, you know, “The Big N” and, “Watch your back.”
WH:  When you went to work in the morning, you didn’t know if you was coming home in the evening, if you was a black stunt guy.
AB: You was always a little apprehensive about who you working with, ‘cause, you know, you’d get some who didn’t buy into the fact that we wasn’t going away, so…you were subject to get hurt.
AB: What motivated you?
WH: I was already an angry young man when I got to Hollywood. For me, growing up in Mississippi, amongst the Ku Klux Klan, you had no respect. And I always said, The county that I grew up in had a representative from Mississippi. And he asked me, “What you been doing since you left Mississippi?” So I told him that I was doing stunts. And he asked me, would I like to come to Mississippi and be honored at the State Capitol? You know, my mom has passed on, but if my mom could just see this, standing here in this podium and speaking to this white audience…and I look out the window and you see all of these oak trees that remind me how many blacks been hung on ‘em. We stood in that same spot. And if we hadnt’ve been stuntmen, we wouldnt’ve been there.
AB: No, we wouldnt’ve.
WH: Ain’t that something?
