GUARD:: Wake up call. Let’s go. Get up.

WILBERT RIDEAU:: 
 The Angolite





MOREESE BICKHAM:: Come over here. I want to introduce you to the beautifulest rosebush on the whole yard. This one right here is my favorite. I named it after my wife, Ernestine. It’s a beautiful pink rose, and some way or another I keep it trimmed and uniform. I call it ”My Beauty.” I know it sound funny, but these is my company keepers. I enjoy these bushes. See if it wasn’t for these bushes, I wouldn’t have nothing to do. So these bushes have come to be close — very close to me.
My name is Moreese Bickham, my number is 75251, and I’m 72 years old. I’ve been in prison every since 1958. My crime is murder of two white deputies in a small town called Mandeville. They was dragons of the Ku Klux Klan and I was a black man living in a white neighborhood and they came to my house to kill me, and they shot me with my hands up and I fell and loaded my gun and I shot ’em. So here I am, 31 years later and I’m still locked up.
I remember when my first gray hair came in my head, I was in prison in 1960. It was right up front where I could see it good. By 1961 I had one in my mustache, by ’63 I had gray hairs all over my head. I’ve had three heart attacks since I’ve been here — the big one happened in 1977 when the pardon board turned me down. Lost all my teeth since I’ve been here, my eyesight went bad. I have high blood pressure, poor blood circulation. Yea’– watchin’ myself pass away, die a little bit every day here in prison.
HENRY PATTERSON:: My name is Henry L. Patterson, my prison number’s 54915, I’ve been at Angola for 30 years. I’m serving a life sentence for a murder I committed in a barroom fight.
You know, you know you gonna age, but then one day a young guy walk up to you — ”Hey, Pop.” And you get offended at first, ”What you mean Pop? You know my name, don’t call me no Pop, man!” But then, you go lay back a little bit you sit down and you analyze it, and you say, ”Well, I am Pop now. I’m old, I’m gray, and I’m no longer Patterson, I’m Pop Patterson.”
MONROE GREEN:: I’m Monroe Green, I’m 57 years old, my number is 62694. I’ve been at Angola for 24 years and 6 months, serving a life sentence for rape. In the morning, all the younger men will crowd the mirrors, none of us older men will even use a mirror to shave in. It took me a while to figure it out, but we don’t like to see ourselves growing older each day.
BICKHAM:: Since I been locked up, I lost all my family mostly. I can see losing my mother and father, but all my sisters, and brothers? All my aunts and uncles? God bless me now. The judge is dead, the D.A.’s dead. The lawyer’s dead. Everybody’s passed on but me. And when I look at it I say, ”Lord, why am I still here?” It makes you wonder.

RIDEAU:: 
, The Angolite.
 TheAngolite

RON WIKBERG:: The old-timers here at Angola are in a state of semi-retirement. Instead of working in the fields like they had for many years, they’ve turned in their hoes and shovels for canes, wheelchairs, crutches. They wear glasses, they wear false teeth. The prison management gives them menial assignments — cleaning doorknobs, washing windows, sweeping floors. They shuffle from place to place. They’re no longer productive, and non-productive prisoners are kind of pushed to the side. This is a place of hard labor, this is a place where prisoners are required to work. Prisoners who can’t work are kind of put to the side, and just allowed to exist.
RIDEAU:: 

WIKBERG:: The long-termers were put in prison 20 and 30 years ago, they have been forgotten about in prison. And that is where the problem begins. There is no mechanism to recognize when a person becomes rehabilitated, and at that point some effort should be made to move them out of the system. It is that lack of this mechanism which has allowed the lifer population to increase 300% in just ten years here in Louisiana, and this problem is not just in Louisiana, it’s nation-wide.

CHAIR OF LIFERS’ ASSOCIATION:: If you wouldn’t mind rising and remove the headgear — please repeat after me: ”We, the members of the Lifers’ Association of the Louisiana State Penitentiary at Angola, Louisiana, join together for the improvement of ourselves and society.”

”We have love in our hearts, for all men. Hope in our spirit that our wrongs will be overshadowed by our rights.”

RIDEAU:: 

CHAIR OF LIFERS’ ASSOCIATION:: ”No matter how dark the night we believe in the coming of the day.” Thank you, gentlemen.

DONALD BUFFETT:: My name is Donald Buffett and people calls me ”Frog.” My number: 57391. I’ve been at Angola for the past 28 years serving a life sentence for the rape of a white woman. The best way I can describe Angola for us long-timers is that it’s something out of science fiction.
JOE WHITE:: My name is Joe White, my number’s 56310. I’ve been incarcerated for murder here in Angola since 1961.
I’ve been here so long it’s difficult to imagine how it feels to be free. I don’t think people can conceive what it means to spend all your life in prison.
PATTERSON:: I find technology amazing, I don’t know for sure but they say they got superhighways now, okay, where you bypass the cities and all, so you don’t have to slow down any — you just, straight through. And I never rode on no superhighway, you know it huh — I wouldn’t even know what to do if I got on one. They say you got lanes that you get in, they say ”fast,” ”slow” . . . and you look at all these things you say ”Boy, this is amazing!”
WHITE:: If you were buried alive, that’s what it would be like. Except for the television, we wouldn’t know that there’s a world out there; except for the radios, we wouldn’t know. We actually come here, and when we come here everything stops. This, this is a graveyard. A graveyard of time.
PATTERSON:: I feel like my life have been frozen in time. Like the Cosby show. I look at those kind of shows and I wonder sometime, ”Is it fiction? Is it really real?” You know, because I can only relate to that which I came out of in ’61, and when I came here in ’61, the restaurants were segregated. When I caught a bus, I caught the back end of the bus, I had to go to the back, I couldn’t sit in the front. You look at the changes from that time that you stopped, and they say, ”Well, they doing this today, they doing that,” and you wonder, ”Is it real? That’s for real there man?”
WHITE:: The living dead, that’s an accurate description of it, because the things that it takes to live, to feel life, we not in contact with that. We fantasize. That’s all we have left is our fantasies and our dreams, and this is what a lot of people rely on to make it.
GREEN:: I often picture my son in my mind’s eye. The last time I saw him he was ten years old, and now he’s 35. I often imagine the scene of when James and I face each other the first time. What will I do? Will we move towards each other? Will I be able to hug him? What response will I get from that hug? Will it be — will it be a loving hug? This picture runs over and over in my mind. It’s like a dream that occurs over and over and over.
WHITE:: It’s as if you don’t exist, it’s like you in a spirit and everything around you is alive, and you can’t touch, you can’t reach, you can’t do anything but just look. We can’t touch people lives, we can’t touch their lives. That’s what tears us up, we can’t touch their lives.

RIDEAU:: 

FRANCIS CLIFTON:: When you finally realize you’re going to die here, it just starts working on your mind. It’s a terrible feeling just know you’re going to stay here till you die.
RIDEAU:: 
CLIFTON:: In spite of all the other fears and problems out there, and the worries on my mind, the guards running all over the place with guns chasing me, and knowing I could be shot at any time, I still was able to enjoy that little bit of freedom, after 28 years. . . Eh, well.. . .
RIDEAU:: 

HILTON BUTLER:: To me, I think life without the possibility of pardon or parole — if you know you have no hope for pardon or parole — would be worse than the death sentence. If you know you’re gonna die at Angola. . .
RIDEAU:: 
BUTLER:: I’m no softy — I gave the signal for the switch to be pulled eleven times when I was warden, but I feel that what’s going on at Angola now is wrong. You have to give an inmate hope. When he’s lost hope, he’s lost everything.
RIDEAU:: 
BUFFETT:: Since I was convicted of rape 28 years ago, I’ve had a recommendation from the pardon board six times to go, even the victim have asked for my release, but yet the governor still refuse to let me go. So it seem that, you know we gonna die here.
BICKHAM:: ”Point Lookout” — we sometimes call it ”Boot Hill,” is a place where they bury the dead. Old timers think about it a right good deal but they don’t talk about it much, because they ’fraid that they might get buried out there. See if you buried out there, you really forgotten. ’Cause nobody comes here to see you — nobody even passes by boot hill.
PATTERSON:: When you die at Angola, you don’t die as ”Henry Patterson lies here.” You die as ”554915 is in the ground up there.” I don’t want to die a number, I don’t want to die an insignificant number. A prison number — nah.
GREEN:: I don’t want to die here and be forgotten. I don’t want to spend my last moment on earth here in penitentiary. I would like to see the outside once more. We’re trying to hold onto a little faith, but it’s constantly deteriorating.
WHITE:: When you start to realize that you’re never going to leave this place, hopelessness begins to take hold of your time. It’s like a disease — everybody around you have it, and it’s just a matter of time until you’ll be next. That’s the torture. Not giving us hope.

People always ask me to recite this particular poem, and the reason I believe they do is because it touches something inside of them. It’s called ”Just Thinking.”
()
I want to drift along, sing a song, get high off memories.
I want to get to know just once more how it feels to be free.
I want rip and run, have a lot of fun, come go as I please.
I want to sleep real late, give myself a break, put my mind at ease.
I want to go strange places, meet new faces, make myself at home.
I want to reach behind, reclaim what’s mine, forget I was ever gone.
I want to stretch out my arms, air out my lungs, get out of my system this. . . this inhibition.
I don’ t know what I want to do, to tell you the truth, I was just thinking, just thinking.
WHITE :: I sure, I sure wish this thing would come to an end.
RIDEAU:: 
