Patricia Brady (PB) and Debra Hackett (DH)
PB: Well, we had some wonderful trips, didn’t we?
DH: Oh, what was your favorite?
PB: I think Hawaii.
DH: Mine too. We went to Waimea Canyon and we went all around the island.
PB: Oh, I know — we did everything. The luau! Remember the luau?
DH: Yes! PB: That was nice.
DH: Yeah, and what was our favorite place to go there for breakfast? McDonalds.
PB: Yes, and it was cheaper, cause Hawaii is expensive. We went to Jamaica, wasn’t it?
DH: Yes, yes, yes.
PB: – and we went on the, we actually went on the waterfalls.
DH: We were on that Richard Simmons’ cruise. Remember we climbed [Ochio?] Falls.
PB: I know. DH: He was so much fun to be with –
BOTH: Richard –
DH:– he was so down to earth.
PB: He says, “Patricia, I haven’t seen you here,” and I was there every day. Boy, did that aggravate me!
DH: I know, cause you did everything that we were suppose to –
PB:– I know! We’d get up at seven o’clock and we’d go and we’d exercise for an hour with him.
DH: And we really were not heavy, but we thought we were. You know we were about –
PB:– you wish you were that weight now.
DH: Well, you are that weight now.
PB: But what a way to lose it though.
DH: Are you starting to get your taste back?
PB: No, not really.
DH: You lose your taste with the chemo, don’t you? At least you got your hearing back – you lost your hearing for a while.
PB: I know, that was awful –
DH:– that was awful.
PB: It’s hard – it’s not so easy, this disease. Everyday is a different challenge, it seems like.
DH: Well, you know what, you gotta think about it like this – we all have a date when we’re born and when we’re gonna go –
PB: I know –
DH:– and even if you do go, Patty, how many people you have there that are waiting for you, that you can’t wait to see again?
PB: I have a lot of good friends there. Most of them are there already.
DH: So either way you’re gonna be all right. PB: You just gotta take a day at a time and you gotta pray to the Lord. You gotta go straight to the top, the Father. We’ll see.
DH: But we’ll see what happens once you even get outta here. I’d like you to get to Shakespeare in the Park again –
PB:– that would be nice, so –
BOTH:– well,–
PB: Maybe that’s a good thing to look forward to if I can do it. That’s what I have to think about, is the good times.
DH: Think about the good times.
