Jon Meadows (JM) and Melissa Meadows
JM: 9/11 happened, then it was just like something inside of me said you know I got to do my part, this is awful.
MM: We got the notice you were going to Iraq. Do you Remember that?
JM: Yeah. I was very excited. But …
MM: It wasn’t such a great adventure. Was it?
JM: No it wasn’t.
MM: You got hurt when you were in Afghanistan this last time. What happened on that incident?
JM: We were supporting a special forces unit. We drove right over the IED. And, uh, my driver floored it, and my body slammed so hard against the top of the vehicle, it felt like I had a knife stuck in, like, the middle of my brain.
MM: I could tell on the phone something was different with you. And then you came home. We slowly discovered that you had a significant brain injury. Dr. Webber had described you as an advanced Alzheimer’s patient. You couldn’t have a conversation. You couldn’t follow one-step instructions. You were almost catatonic at times.
JM: That’s got to bother you, don’t it?
MM: Sometimes it does. It does.
JM: Do you think you would ever want to give up?
MM: No. Absolutely not. Your mission is to get better.
JM: And that’s what I’m trying to do, and it’s so hard to say, “I need help.” I can’t soldier it up anymore. I have to be somebody that wants to be healed. And, now we’re working with my PTSD, which is a different thing. The only way to treat that is I have to talk about it too.
MM: Absolutely.
JM: I remember we were going on a mission, and my good friend—Staff Sergeant William Beardsley—he took my place. He decided that he wanted to go on the mission, so I’m like, “Okay, yeah, go ahead.” And um, he went, and got killed. That was the hardest moment in my life. And, I was ashamed because, I was glad it wasn’t me. Then I had the guilt, like, if I went on the mission, it wouldn’t have been him. I had a picture of him, and I had it everywhere I went. And now I put him on the uh, on my bookshelf. There’s my buddy. Who got killed. I can never get over that.
