DAVID ISAY: 



You know they’re closing the Horn & Hardart tonight?
CUSTOMER: Tonight? They can’t do that, they’ve been here for over 50 years. You’re springing this on me all of the sudden. Today’s the final…? You’re not kidding.
CUSTOMER: Oh, no. We love it.
CUSTOMER: Oh, am I happy I was here to have a cup of coffee. I’ll miss it so much. I’m 97 years old. I never miss to come here. It hurts. What happened? Tell me.
CUSTOMER: Forever? Unbelievable. I came here 75 years ago. And now they’re closing?
CUSTOMER: I was brought up in the Automat. My mother brought me here. I was a hard kid to feed at home. I liked to go out to eat. No matter how good she was a cook, I liked coming to the Automat.
CUSTOMER: My mother used to take me for allergy shots. After the pain of the shots, the thing that I most looked forward to was to go up and get the chicken pot pie from the Automat.
CUSTOMER: When I was a young actress, I used to go to the Automats on Broadway. And a lot of stars would come in before show time. Before plays went on they would come into the Automat. And, oh, it was terrific! The chocolate cream pie, the pumpkin pie, and the wonderful vegetables. It was terrific, the Automat.
CUSTOMER: The Automat was the closest thing to home cooking. Really.
CUSTOMER: There were so many, I don’t know how many. How many were there? I don’t know. Everywhere they were! Everywhere! Everywhere!
CUSTOMER: Downtown, Wall Street area. Every place, yeah.
CUSTOMER: Before we’d come to work, we’d stop in, have a cup of coffee, a sandwich. It was real nice. And you always see something, some characters or something. It was beautiful.
CUSTOMER: This was years ago a poor man’s paradise. People didn’t have too much money years ago. People could come in here and ate like a rich person. They could eat, relax, enjoy, meet their people. It was nice.
CUSTOMER: You come in relax, read a paper, something you can’t do in no fast food chain now, because they got to get you in and out, and that’s the name of the game now, you know? And maybe that’s one of the things that ruined the Automat too, you know? Maybe too many people came in, stayed too long. Must be some reason why they’re closing up.
CUSTOMER: If they close this place where can we go?
CUSTOMER: Where’s a poor man gonna go? Where’s the average person gonna go?
CUSTOMER: They’ve taken a home away from people that love it so much. Makes me cry. So many years…
ISAY: 

