
CDC: When you shared your StoryCorps recording with everyone, how did you feel, Aaron?
A: I felt awkward, like a big load was let off because, I mean, I just said it. I don’t know what made me say it but I’m like, let me just be honest and just get it out.
CDC: I was scared because I felt helpless. I didn’t know what to do, but at the same time I felt I had an obligation to try my best to help you.
A: Yeah, I didn’t even know you actually listened to that one.
CDC: I listened to all of them, Aaron [laughs].
A: Yeah, I didn’t really think that I would ever really tell a teacher, but it makes me know that you’re special because you care. You talk to me and make sure that I’m cool. Because sometimes kids were bullying me, calling me a freak of nature, throwing chairs, throwing glass and stuff at me.
CDC: I’ve had to deal with some bullying issues when I was in school but not to the extent that you have. I was always picked on because I was a tomboy and I was afraid. Were you surprised that I would tell you that?
A: I mean, you seem pretty cool, I don’t think no one would mess with you.
CDC: So overall how do you feel? You have more friends this year?
A: Yes, I have more friends this year.
CDC: So it’s better than last year?
A: Yeah. You know, I’m in a foster home now — been since October.
CDC: Do you feel different living in a foster home?
A: It’s good actually. I feel comfortable. Where I am now, it kind of feels like home.
CDC: So can I tell you one thing that I really admire about you, Aaron? Because I’ve never told you. Do you know how strong you are?
A: [Laughs] no.
CDC: You’ve never realized that…
A: No.
CDC: But you have a strength that no matter what anyone says about you or they do to you, you don’t change who you are as a person. And a lot of people don’t have that strength. So I admire that about you.
A: Thank you.
CDC: Don’t make me cry again, Aaron.
A: [Laughs]
CDC: I want to see you happy. Just your smile is the best moments of you.
A: Thank you. That means a lot to me.
