
Jess Buzzutto (JB):: I saw this guy with a hat. It was a green felt hat. And I looked at it and I said, ‘I want that’. And then one day I grew my beard and my moustache and all of sudden behind me I keep hearing, “leprechaun, leprechaun” and I started to enjoy it. So I started to emphasize the leprechaunishness. Now as I go down the street, I get, “Top of the morning to ya. Where’s your pot of gold? Hey Mr. Leprechaun, give me some luck.” And as I tell people that ask me if I’m a real leprechaun, ‘I’m the realest leprechaun you’re ever going to see in your life, man.’
Eileen Logiudice (LE):: How has it changed your life?
JB:: It’s given me a warped view of the world. Because everybody is happy when they see a leprechaun. One day I went down to the DMV and I stood on line, and I saw this person behind the counter giving everybody a hard time, and I gave her my paperwork, and she looked and it and said, “This is wrong. Next.” And I said, ‘What’s wrong with it?’ “Next!” So I went home and figured out what might of been wrong with it and I came back the next day, and she takes the paperwork and she says, “That’s wrong.” But she looked up at me, and she got a big smile on her face. She said, “No, no, that’s alright.” And she corrected what was wrong. And I got outside and I scratched my head, and when my hand hit my hat, I said, ‘that’s what happened, she saw the leprechaun and she changed 180 degrees.’

EL:: What are the most important lessons you learned in life?
JB:: Don’t take today too seriously. Things may look very bleak right now but they’ll be turned around. It’s just a matter of holding on until they do. I never planned on being a leprechaun. People don’t even know what a leprechaun is. Neither do I tell you the truth. But when something good is dumped in your lap, you take it.
EL:: My name is Eileen Logiudice.
Tori Medina (TM): : My name is Tori Medina. Today is March 12, 2017.
TM:: How do you keep his memory alive?
EL:: Well. I have a lot of his clothes. I wear his t-shirts, his polo shirts, they’re all green. You know? I remember a lady came up to me and she said, “Are you the leprechaun’s sister?” And I said, ‘Yeah. How do you know that?’ She said, “You look just like him.”
But I really never realized how popular he was until he died. At the funeral–
TM: :  There were so many people there. I remember the mayor came.
TM: : You know, the thing I really learned about life from him was basically: love thy neighbor. I think he made me kinder person.
EL:: That’s a wonderful tribute. He was a great guy.
