Joe Hunter (JH): The plan was for me to stay at the office and run the road from the office, so I would train managers and send them out. I would sneak out on the road to see if they were doing their job, and I had been trying to hit on you and date you for years, and you wouldn’t give me the time of day.
Trudy Hunter (TH): I didn’t trust management.
JH: Right.
TH: So I didn’t have nothing to do with you. All you did for me was give me information.
JH: Give me my check!
TH: Give me my check and that was it bro. I’m sorry.
JH: I know. It’s lonely being a manager.
TH: Right. But our relationship was good as far as being able to hang out.
JH: Well, you were my counselor. When I had women problems, I’d come talk to you. and you’d listen so good and then send me back to my room.
TH: Right.
JH: And I’m like, ”No, can I stay? You know, don’t you want to hug me and hold me.”
TH: No, no, no.
JH: And you’re like, ”No, let’s pray or read some Scripture.”
TH: Right.
JH: And I’m like, ”Aw no.” Well, you remember I trained this guy, and I heard this guy was not doing his job, and he was sitting in the audience while the show was going on and doing different things. I came out on the road to check up on you guys. And as I was going through the venue, I came upon the Raelettes dressing room. And it was just a law that you don’t go in the Raelettes dressing room, especially without knocking.
TH: Right. Exactly.
JH: But the door was cracked, and I go in, and there you were. Our eyes meet, and I kiss you. And you kiss me back, on the lips.
TH: I remember that. I remember that.
JH: And I’m like, It’s over! That’s it! I got to fire this guy, all right. Even if this guy…
TH: ’Cause you want to come back out on the road.
JH: Even if this guy was doing a great job he was fired that day, okay? It’s over.
TH: Okay.
JH: I need your job, man case I’m going to get Trudy all right? And the next morning, I gave that guy his ticket, and I’m standing at the bus waiting for everyone to come and you come to the bus, and I see it on your lips, you’re about to say, ”That kiss meant nothing.” And I looked in your eyes and before you could say anything I said, ”It’s too late.”
TH: Haha.
JH: And after thirteen years of marriage…
TH: Yes, thirteen years of marriage
JH: I just, I just love what we have in each other. I’m thankful to have you in my life. I mean when I wake up and see you, you know, there’s not an ugly day, long as you there.
