


 Extra cap, extra bell, safety pins.
 
 See you later.
 Maybe.
 See you down the road there.
 
 Show me some magic! Wiggle…
 I’m just me. Santa Claus’s helper that’s all.
 Wiggle your nose and make powder come out!
 I’m not here to entertain people.
 Why it’s not snowing?
 .
I don’t believe in miracles and faith and hope and all that — praying for things, and all that other crap that a lot of people try to push down on holidays. Things just don’t work that way, not in real life.

 Santa! Santa! Santa!
 Uh, don’t pull his beard!
 
 Hey, you not Santa! Santa doesn’t smoke.
Life is full of disappointments, and everybody don’t live happily ever after.
 
 You can’t say, ”Look, take a walk. Get the hell out of here.” I’m supposed to be Santa, Santa’s helper, and the spirit of Christmas and all that garbage . . .

Thank you children. I’ve got to go over to my chimney. I’ve got to go over to my chimney.
 
 You know, the hell with the ho ho ho’s. You know.
 
 I just say I got to go pee, that’s all.
  on a single day.
 Think about it. New Yorkers are cynical people. They kinda know I’m not a bullshit artist, you know?
 If I give you a buck, will you put your moustache back on and let me take a picture?
 Let me take that cigarette first.
 
 Yo, Santa what’s happening?
 Nothing to do.
 It’s evening now at Rockefeller Plaza, and Santa Surwinski has been working now for about twelve hours. Things are not looking rosy. Donations have been coming in slowly all day. Relief Santa Smith, who was supposed to give Surwinski a break every two or three hours, has disappeared. It’s getting colder and colder. But that doesn’t faze Surwinski a bit. It would take a lot more than that to dampen this Cynical Santa’s special Christmas spirit.
 Merry Christmas. Merry Christmas.
KID: Put that on!
 Nah, it’s uncomfortable and it’s itching me. It’s just a lot of bull anyway.
 Santa Surwinski, do you have any sort of final Christmas message to leave us with?
 Everybody dies. Everybody dies. And you wonder what the hell, what’s it all about… I do.
 
 Merry Christmas Santa.
 Merry Christmas, Happy Hanukah, whatever.
