Kellie Phelan (KP) and Savannah Phelan (SP)
SP: Why did you go to jail?
KP: Because I started using drugs when I got into an accident and I broke my knee. And that caused me to start taking pills that was prescribed from a doctor. But then mommy kind of got out of control with them and I wound up getting arrested.
SP: What was it like to be pregnant with me in jail?
KP: It was kind of lonely because I really didn’t have anybody then. And it was very scary.
SP: When you were in jail and I first came out, who was I with?
KP: You were born in a real hospital like every other baby that’s born, but then you came back to Rikers Island with me. So you stayed with mommy, because there’s a part of the jail for mommies and babies there.
SP: What went through your head when you first saw me?
KP: Oh my god, I loved you so much. And I just wanted everything in the world to be perfect for you.
SP: I wanted to know why you never told me this stuff? Why didn’t you?
KP: I guess I would have told you when I felt that you were old enough to understand. But I think that I was afraid to tell you, because it breaks my heart, and I get very sad when I talk about it. In the hospital, here I was walking into the nursery to see my beautiful baby, and there were other mommies and daddies seeing their babies, and here I was in this big orange jumpsuit and shackles. And I was really, really, embarrassed. So after you knew the truth, how did you feel?
SP: It made me feel very sad because I don’t want you to be lonely. And I will never walk away from you. Mom, it feels good to be talking to you about this. It makes me understand why you went to jail.
KP: You know, mommy had it a little rougher than you. My education wasn’t great when I was young, and that’s part of the reason I failed later on in life. But I don’t ever want you to be embarrassed or ever feel like you should be ashamed of where you were born, because you, you are my angel. You saved my life. And I will forever be grateful for you. Not everybody gets to save their mom’s life.
