Brian Peterson (BP) and :
 I remember walking up to you. It was like butterflies in my stomach. I introduced myself, and I think I apologized to you. I remember saying, ”I’m sorry for like driving by you a hundred times and never saying hi.” ‘Cause you were always outside my building.
MF:: You asked me a lot of questions, like what I want to do with my life. Things that are important to a person.
BP:: One of the first things you told me was that, ’I moved here from Kentucky to be a musician. And some things didn’t work out.’
MF:: Yeah.
BP:: And then out of nowhere, I just asked you, ’Can I paint your portrait?’
MF:: My first thought when you asked that was, ’Oh, wow, an artist.’  Something I have someone in common with. [sic]
BP:: In that first conversation, I was looking at you and you say you’re not photogenic, but I — I saw the man who moved from Kentucky, the guy who came out here to pursue a career in music. And I hadn’t painted in eight years, but you were the first guy that captured my heart and gave me a subject to paint.
MF: :And when you asked me what I wanted to do with the proceeds from the painting, I didn’t even have to think about it.
BP:: I was trying to get you, like, hotel rooms, and clothes, and book bags, and shoes…
MF:: Yeah, you’d made some suggestions…
BP:: [laughs] And you’d always say, ’No, no, no, no…’ [laughs]
MF:: ”Well, that sounds nice, but I want to record a CD. [laughs]
BP:: After you told me that for like the tenth time, I started finding studios for you to record in. In that first recording session, I saw you on the piano, on the guitar, singing…
MF:: Yes.
BP:: And then I remember you got to the drums. And there was no drum set. We were like, ’We’ll just use synthesized drums.’ And you told me, ’No way.’
And I thought to myself, ’Man, how many areas in my own life have I just maybe gave in to settling for less?’ And the fact that you wouldn’t was a lesson that I’ve taken with me from that day.
MF:BP:: I don’t know, like, how many people will end up hearing the album. But it’s really helped me a lot to meet someone who’s really stuck with me.
 For me, I consider you more than a friend. You’ve shown me things may not always be what they seem and that there’s a new way of looking at the world. And everyone deserves to be seen with eyes of love.
