

 
 Got one in there named Sam, one Strychnine, one Smoky, one Lucky . . .
 
 Another one’s named Black Booger. Another one’s named Cover Girl . . .
 

 

 Listen there.
 
 It’s music to a hunter’s ears.
 
 Each dog’s got a different voice. I hear old Sam.

Old Shade’s got to holler when he hears old Smoky.
 
 Get to it Jim!
 Come on Sam . . .
 

 We’ve seen the sun come up lots of mornings o’ huntin’, and not sleep a wink all night.
 You hear that ”nyup nyup nyup nyup nyup” real fast — that’s old Smoky. You hear one of them bawlin’ ones, ”howww howwww” — that’s a dog we call Eagle. You hear that ”how how how how.”
 
 There’s all types of voices. There’s tenor, alto, bass, sopraner, and baritone. You take old Jim and Sam’s got bass voices. Well, you take there’s Smoky, he’s got a baritone voice. Well, you take old Cheater, he’s got a tenor voice. Well, you take Cover Girl . . .



 What a beautiful night that we’ve got — full moon, about 32 degrees, still. And the hounds are running hard out, all around about us. But I want to tell you about a hound I had called Bone Hill Billy. He had distemper when he was a puppy that left him with a stiff hind leg that jerked, but he went to runnin’ and he was outstanding. And he could tell you just how close he was to his game the way he give his mouth. He started off — if he was trailing, he was way behind his game — it was just ”yaw yaw oohh oooh ooh ooh.” And then as he warmed up it was ”ho ho ho hoooo hooo ho ho ho hooo.” And he’d thrill you to death! Now Shade, I want you to tell him about old 47. He was an outstanding hound that Shade had just a few year ago.
 Well, 47, he was a white dog, beautiful dog. He had a big old heavy chop mouth, ”yop yop yop yop yop yop.” You’d know him every time he barked.
 Shade, I want you to mock old Smokey.
 Well, Elmer Hancock owned him . . .

 

 Hound Jes-us.
 Whoop. Whoop.
 
 Out under the stars, you can gain a lot of knowledge about what God has put here and the mysteries that he holds for us.
 Yup.
 You get a lot of lessons out a huntin’ under the stars, listening to your hounds. It’s wonderful.
 Yup.
Wonderful.
 Yee-up.
