Philip Frabosilo and Judi Frabosilo
PF: Her father wasn’t around – so I was dealing mostly with her grandmother and her mother, and her mother was really the boss. And Chicky had one day approached me and said to me – that was her nickname Chicky – she said, ‘What are your intentions? Are you really going to marry my daughter?’ And I said, ‘Yes, I’m gonna marry her, but I’m gonna be drafted so I’ll wait til I get back.’ She goes, ‘But do you really want to marry her?’ And I say, ‘Look, if I don’t get drafted I’ll marry her now.’
And Nixon dropped the draft. I was driving down the street, and Nixon got on the – and he started talking, and he said, ‘All you men who are between 1 and 125, I have some good news for you, you’re not gonna be drafted.’ And I just went right through the light, I sailed through the light, because I knew Chicky –
JF: I heard you screaming!
PF: When I walked in the house, Judi was happy – ‘I’m getting married November 18!’
JF: We already made the plans, too.
PF: They had it all set up. No matter what, I was either going to walk to Vietnam or get shot down the aisle.
JF: I thought I wasn’t going to get any more chances in life so I better grab this one who made the offer. Have I ever told you that before?
PF: No.
JF: They told me I was gonna be a nun.
PF: I’ve discovered in life that all of the real exciting things are the things that you don’t expect…
JF: You’re right. The other day, bringing me home those flowers, that was very nice. Thank you.
PF: That’s right. I never buy her flowers because they charge too much and they die too quick but I saw African violets on sale…
JF: See, you had to put a dullness on it. You see, it was so nice.You should not have said that. You should just let it go.
PF: Do you have any regrets, my dear?
JF: If I had any regrets I wouldn’t be sitting here with you.
PF: How about my iderosyncrasies [sic]? Which of them bother you the most?
JF: I’m only here for a short amount of time, Phillip. My life is not long enough for me to repeat them.
PF: I think that our love for each other is so intense and so real that I really think we’re a perfect blend.
JF: I don’t know that we’re really a perfect blend, to be honest.
PF: A lot of times Judy’s wrong. In fact, as a couple, we add up more than the sum of the whole [sic].
JF: Honey, that’s beautiful. Thank you!
PF: You’re welcome.
JF: Did you have that planned to say that?
PF: No, I don’t plan things.
JF: That just came right out? You see you’re just so full of goodness. Start sending some of that goodness my way.
