Tabinda F. Sheikh (TFS) and Tariq M. Sheikh (TMS)
TFS: Do you remember the first time you saw me?
TMS: You have a yellow gloves on and I could not say ‘hello,’ ‘hi,’ nothing.
TFS: Oh I thought you was rude and mean. I said, ‘Oh my God, this guy don’t even say ‘Hi.’ You’re just staring at me! [laughs]
TMS: Yea, because you was the girl who was in my dreams.
TFS: Yea, but I didn’t have that dream!
TMS: You remember, I ask you ‘Do you wanna go with me for coffee?’ You gave me answer after two days!
TFS: Because I didn’t know how to speak English.
TMS: I remember you have a small dictionary in your pocket — a Spanish-to-English. And on the, like, paper,
TFS: –napkin
TMS: Napkin. You write, ‘Ok, yes.’
TFS: Language is not a barrier for the love.
TMS: After that, I bought a yellow cab. I was a driver, you know? One day I say, ‘You know your address where you live? Let me drop you, your home.’ You say, ‘I live in New Jersey.’ Just ‘New Jersey.’
TFS: [laughs]
TMS: I say, ‘Oh my God, today I gonna have a long night!’ When I went there, it was YMCA. I say, ‘Why you don’t tell me you live in YMCA?’ You say, ‘I don’t know YMCA is like a famous thing.’ [laughs]
TFS: I didn’t have no family here. He didn’t have no family here. And when I call back home, and I say, ‘I am in love. I have a–.’ They say, ‘? Chubby man? You don’t like fat men!’
TMS: I was not that fat. Just chubby yes [laughs]
TFS: I know, sweetheart! But for us, this was fat.
TMS: Yup. So, I was working like 72 hours continuously. I was very tired. And I remember, there was a park over there nearby.
TFS: mhmm.
TMS: We went. There was a bench. I put my head on your legs and I slept.
TFS: I don’t even want to move. If I move, he’s going to wake up. It was beautiful. Looking the moon, the stars.
TMS: I woke up morning time. And you was still sitting there and I say, ‘What?!’ That was the moment I fell in love with you.
TFS: Love is a wonderful thing. This is my man! And we’re gonna be married 23 years now.
TMS: She’s telling me 23 years. For me, it’s like yesterday.
