Darryl Cooke (DC)and Terry Banies (TB)
DC: What is it that people who have never been incarcerated before don’t get?
TB: For me, it’s just being alone and having all of these feelings and emotions coming to the surface. I can remember being in jail and going through Cook County’s tunnels handcuffed to this one guy. And then I look behind me and I’m seeing all these people, and the majority of them African American. So I’m like, man, this is what it must have felt like for them slaves — our ancestors. I mean, that’s when I started trying to put things together like that.
I remember they sent me to the same penitentiary where my little brother was at. And I ain’t even know he was at that penitentiary. And he walking past going to chow and he stopped, looked at me, and I looked at him. Me and him sat down and he started crying, telling me I can’t come back. So, he flipped the script and he became the big brother. And I could remember telling myself, this is something I can’t do no more.
DC: So, what did your preparation to be released look like?
TB: Before I had got locked up I was going to school, so when I got ready to come out, my intentions was finishing my bachelor’s degree. But there’s a little box on the application — have you been convicted of a crime? And you know, I remember all of those feelings that I had in that cell just came right back. What’s the use? This ain’t gonna do no good. Getting in that fetal position and feeling that cell come closing in on me again. Prison doors and jail doors has a distinct sound and every time that I see that box on any application, it’s the sound of the door closing. And if I’m not strong enough, I start tearing myself down.
DC: Well, what advice would you have for a young man that’s gonna be released today?
TB: The thing that I would say: Find you a good support network. Like yourself — somebody that’s going to be there with you through thick or thin.
DC: No doubt, man. We brothers. That’s what we do. Had I not had you, I probably would get to my destination but not with the lessons — you know, I wouldn’t have those.
I just want to appreciate you, man, for allowing me to be here with you.
TB: Thank you, bro.
DC: Alright, bro.
