


 This building on this corner used to be Klein and Blumenthal’s department store. The sign’s still on the building. You can see it.

 The building we’re going into now to deliver mail used to be Gelman’s Café — belonged to my uncle.

 Hey, how are you this morning?
 Turning a little cold, isn’t it?
 It sure is. I believe it’s going to snow tonight.
 Ahavath Rayim

 At one time the store next door to this one was Jewish. The store up the street was Jewish. On down the street was a Jewish laundry. On down the street was a five and dime store — Jewish. There was Bennett’s Bargain Store. Across the street there was a kosher butcher, a kosher tailor. There were two or three ready-to-wear stores — some of the biggest stores in town . . .




 We were here when the streets was mud and dirt. We’ve been here a long time.

Leslie Kornfeld is tall, thin, and nearly-bald, dapperly dressed, with a little accounts notebook in his breast pocket. Kornfeld was born and raised in Greenwood, Bar Mitzvahed at congregation Ahavath Rayim. He says that growing up a southern Jew was not so bad.
 I had fights. I was called ”Christ Killer.” I told ’em, ”What the hell did I have to do with killing Christ? I had nothin’ to do with killing Christ!” But when I got to high school, I was center of the basketball team, I made the track team, and we got along fine. They looked at me and said, ”He’s a human being after all, maybe.”
 But I think it was a lot different when I was coming up than when you were coming up . . .

 Because there were a lot more Yehudim here when you were coming up. When I was coming up there were like four or five of us. I mean, I’ll be honest with you, I had a hell of a time coming up. There were people that wouldn’t have anything to do with me because of who I was and what I was and because my hair was kinky instead of straight, and my name began with ”Korn-” instead of ”Smith” or ”Jones” — I know that.

 Ahavath Rayim

 The older people died out. The young people went to college, got their degrees for lawyers, doctors. They didn’t want to go back to the little towns. There’s nothing. You take a town with 1,500 people, 1,000 or 3,000 — these little communities around here — there’s nothing there for them! So they went either to Memphis or New Orleans or Birmingham — to the city. And they left us old folks here to ponder what the future, and dream about the past.
 Ahavath Rayim minyan Ahavath Rayim
 We’re trying to keep going — it’s all we can do. ’Cause after all what can 12 people — I don’t know if we’ve got 12 people left ’cause we’ve lost . . . in the past year we’ve lost two members . . . three members! It’s really a pitiful situation! And it’s not gonna get no better, it’s gonna get worse. We lose any more members what do you got? But we keep plugging along.


 Okay, son, you’re under arrest.
 Ahavath Rayim




.
 Ahavath Rayim
 He keeps us all quiet. .
 I asked a rabbi about that, and he said, ”If soldiers in Israel carry a gun and they  and they pray, then it’s perfectly alright in America, too.”

 I can close my eyes. My father wore hearing-aid glasses — he had a hearing aid in both ears. And we used to have a Rabbi that reminded me of a Baptist preacher when he started the sermon. He would rant and rave and pound the pulpit to get his points across. And when he got up and it became time for the sermon, my father would reach up and you would hear ”click click” as he hit both hearing aid switches. And he would sit there with the prettiest smile on his face and his eyes closed, and pretty soon he’d start snoring. And I can see that just like it was yesterday.

 Joe Erber stands with his back to the congregation, facing the simple mahogany ark which holds the Torahs.
It is a rather unforgettable sight: this hulking good ole’ boy — handlebar mustache, pistol and all — gently rocking back and forth, his eyes closed, the tassels of his prayer shawl brushing the podium.

Behind him, the curved wooden pews are mostly empty. The congregants have spread out comfortably in the last three rows on one side of the temple. There are nearly 20 people here tonight. It’s the largest crowd they’ve had in months. With myself included, they have a minyan for the first time since the High Holidays.
 Mourner’s .


In Meridian, Mississippi, orthodox congregation Othel Jacob had resorted to taking out ads in Jewish newspapers offering to pay males to come to Meridian for their services, but it didn’t work. Othel Jacob closed its doors this past spring, leaving Ahavath Rayim as the only remaining orthodox congregation in the state — and as one of the last holdouts in a chapter of Jewish history which seems destined soon to end.

 I can see the handwriting on the wall — it’s just not going to be. Eventually this is going to fall the way of all the other little synagogues and temples in the state. I can take you to Canton, Mississippi right now and show you where they had a fine temple — the only thing left looks like a gravestone that says: ”This marks the spot of the Temple so-and-so.” And that’s what it is — a gravestone for the congregation. And eventually I think that’s what we’re gonna have.
One of the younger members, younger than I am, he and I have a saying every time we go to a funeral for another one of the olders: The last one out, please close the gate. You know — last one out, close the gate.

, good .
A , a . . You ready? She and I used to do the  . . .

