Robert Sanchez (RS) and Fred Davie (FD):
RS: We met at Sing Sing in this small windowless room…
FD: Yeah exactly.
RS: …which didn’t look like much of an educational setting… (Laughs)
FD: I know… (Laughs)
RS: But that room created magic. I think it was 16 men, most of us were there for about 15-20 years.
FD: I remember being impressed at how well-read you guys were.
RS: Fred, we didn’t have much else to do. (Laughs)
FD: (Laughs) I remember that you said that you had no arrests prior, nothing in your system, and nothing on you, and you got 15 years to life for a non-violent drug charge. But I thought, he’s making that up.
RS: It can’t be possible. (Laughs)
FD: (Laughs) It can’t be possible. Right…
RS: I think I survived it by always having hope. What is life without hope? Even an iota of light can go a long way. And my first impression of you was here’s this beautiful kind man who, for whatever reason, just represents hope to me.
FD: All these years I never knew this had that much impact on you.
RS: Oh it did Fred, it did.
FD: Huh?
RS: I’ve been home for 16 years now.
FD: Yep.
RS: When I came home I was so afraid, but I knew that I can pick up the phone and tell you, “Fred, I don’t get this shit.”
FD: Right. (Laughs)
RS: I could just ask the dumbest questions ever…
FD: (Laughs)
RS: …but you never told me they were dumb.
FD: For me, I had people in my corner every step of the way. My dad wasn’t there, but if things messed up, no matter where I was, I could always go to my mother’s front porch, and know that I was welcome.
RS: I have that from you, but I didn’t have that from anywhere else, so…
FD: Understood.
RS: You know it’s weird because I’m not your son…
FD: Right. (Laughs)
RS: …but, you know, I didn’t grow up with a father neither. My father died from an overdose, so I saw you as, like if I had a dad, if I had somebody that was going to guide me, that was you.
FD: Wow, thank you. Most folks who’ve been through what you’ve been through don’t get this far.
RS: Yeah, I’ve got to be reminded every now and then. There are times that I get bitter and angry at my situation, I live a pretty lonely life, and if I’m not careful, I can fall into these doldrums. But just you being there to be able to listen to me and say, “You know what, you’re going to be okay,” it’s a tremendous gift, and I’m a lucky man.
