Sarah Avant (SA): How do you think you are different because your dad and I got divorced?
Anand Hernandez (AH): Well, I’m hoping to recover from the time of just stress. There was a lot of yelling around the house between you and Dad. And, I’m not happy that you guys are divorced, but I mean, I guess there’s kind of a convenience there, because I remember feeling really like, [sighs] I don’t want to make somebody look like a favorite. Now I spend one week with Dad, one week with you.
SA: And how do you think that will affect you in the long run?
AH: [Sighs] I don’t know. I mean I don’t see a life as a criminal. I mean, I just don’t want to be one. I guess after you guys got divorced, you know it was hard, but it was just a lot better. Fifth grade was a lot better this year too, so I’m hoping sixth grade to be the diamond year and to be perfect.
SA: So do you think the hard time that you had in school had a lot to do with what the environment was like at home–that we fought a lot?
AH: Yeah. I mean, I’m not trying to say, ”Oh, it’s all your guys’ fault.” But I definitely think that was a lot of the influence.
SA: And so what do you think it would be like to be in a family if I got married again?
AH: I want you to get married, you know, because you’re not getting any younger.
SA: Thanks. [Laughs]
AH: Well I’m just saying. But then again, I don’t know, it would be kind of weird. I mean, no offense, but it’s already hard enough dealing with you, so, having a stepdad to worry about, that would be harder.
SA: What do you mean when you say worry about?
AH: Well, I mean, I have to worry about [if] I’m meeting up to your standards.
SA: Well, I don’t want you to always feel like you have to make me happy.
AH: Yeah.
SA: So if I were to remarry, what do you think the ideal situation would be like for you?
AH: Well I know this wouldn’t happen, but you getting remarried with Dad. But if it were to be somebody else than Dad–the ideal situation you being happy.
SA: If you had one thing that you want me to remember forever, what would it be?
AH: After spending the week with you and just you–probably this week. It would be really awesome if you could remember that.
SA: Well I’ve had a nice time with you this week. And it’s been nice to be reminded that you are such a great kid.
