




 We’re a small museum of — we say natural history — history of science and history of art.


 We feel it’s a good exhibit to have right at the beginning because in a certain way it helps set the tone for the rest of the museum, and people find it enormously interesting, I think.

 . . . an elephant ridden by a monkey, a boar, a dog, a donkey, a stag, a camel, a horse, a bird, a goat, a lynx and a group of rabbits latter under a branch under which sit an owl, another bird, and a squirrel. Its’ dimensions are thirteen micrometers by eleven micrometers.
 You can almost not see any of that it’s so tiny.
 This particular artifact has been handled a lot and a great deal of it is unfortunately worn away.


 ”The Museum of Jurassic Technology in Los Angeles, California is an educational institution dedicated to the advancement of knowledge and the public appreciation of the Lower Jurassic . . .”

 ”Many of these collections are well known and need only need to be mentioned here. Among these were the collection of O. Worm, whose museum, or meanum, achieved great fame. Another collection of rarities was preserved at South Lambath by Elias Ashmole. Mr. Ashmole, a botanist, presented his extraordinary collection to his friend and neighbor, Samuel Dull, author of .”


 ”Glory to him who endureth forever and in whose hand are the keys of unlimited pardon and unending punishment.”

 This place has always been a very pulling force for me, and even some other people in the neighborhood. It’s always been a place of mysterious inquiry, you could say, you know.
 People talk about it?
 Yeah, people talk about it. We don’t know what’s in here. It’s something that is worth being known about.
 Why don’t we look around and see some other stuff?

 Is that right?

 Jesus!

 They actually eat this as a sandwich? That would flip the world out.

 Hi, sorry. How are you doing?
 That’s alright. I was just kind of assimilating, absorbing all this stuff.
 Yeah, it’s a lot to take in all at once.
 Oh yeah. I’ve always had a feeling that there is something strange and mystical and beneficial coming from this place because it emanates a very type of healing, metaphysical type of healing thing, from here.
 Huh. That’s interesting.
 And you yourself, you have a certain type of aura about yourself. Your demeanor is different from a lot of human beings that you just see on the street.
 Hmmm.

 I could tell something was up. As we were pulling away from the curb he handed me this piece of paper that said ”The Museum of Jurassic Technology,” and I said ”What?” And he told me that he was building a museum.
 And I think her response was ”What is this, your life’s work?” And she was right.
 ”In the rain-forest of the Cameroon in west central Africa, lives a floor-dwelling ant known as Megalopenera foetens, or, more commonly, the stink ant.”

 ”The ant appears troubled and confused. For the first time in its life, the ant leaves the forest floor and begins to climb.”

 ”The fungus continues to consume first the nerve cells, and finally all the soft tissue that remains of the ant. After approximately two weeks, a spike appears from what had been the head of the ant. This spike is about an inch and a half in length and has a bright orange tip heavy with spores which rain down on the rain-forest floor for other unsuspecting ants to inhale.”
 We’ve read this ourselves as a metaphor for our own kind of obsessive behavior about this institution. It seems to us sometimes almost as if we’ve inhaled a spore ourselves and have driven to behave in unnaturally obsessive ways in the creation of this institution.
 What kind of salary do you get?
 Um . . . my salary could best be described as zero. As nothing.
 I don’t know. It’s become a way of life.  It’s a strange way of life, but it’s a way of life
 ”The five areas of inquiry are pins and needles, body parts and secretions, shoes and stockings . . . ”
 There are some people who, for reasons we don’t entirely understand, come to the museum and in our introductory slide show begin to laugh, and laugh uproariously through the entire museum, laugh at every exhibit. We don’t object to this, but we don’t exactly understand why. On the other end of the spectrum we have people for whom the museum is a much more solemn and serious place. We remember fondly a man called John Thomas, who when he first came to the museum spent at least three hours in the back, and when he came out he leaned his head against the wall and cried inconsolably for at least three minutes. My wife went over to him, and he said that he realized that it was a museum but to him it was like a church.

 One of the things that we are greatly interested in is helping people to achieve states of wonder.
 So you’re not upset when people come to you at the desk and are confused about what kind of place this is?
 No. We feel that confusion can be a very creative state of mind. In fact, confusion can act as a vehicle to open people’s minds. The hard shell of certainty can be shattered, and once that certainty is shattered, then I feel people are more open to broader influences.

 This was on a woman? It’s breathtaking.

 Okay, so how do you explain that? I mean, was she a specific species from earth? They actually were earth people?
 We assume that she was from earth.
 The year is 1688.
 Quite a while ago. But she’s not the only person to ever grow a horn. There have been recorded numbers of people who’ve grown horns.
 Could this be from her having some type of sexual intercourse with an animal that had horns?
 That hadn’t occurred to me. There are people who have similar beliefs or thoughts like that. That would be interesting if there would be a way to check or find out.
Hmmm. Right. Huh.
 Sure.

 I really enjoyed myself. This was very new to me. And I learned a lot. It was like going through a pyramid or something, you know.
 Thanks again.

 What is the device?
 Well, you drive the direct current motor with an alternating current from the mains.

 This is Harold Chambers, who is currently head of our research department.
 Oh. Thank you.

 I was fascinated by it and I saw things here that I didn’t quite know what to make of at first, and I kept coming back. I walked around and I saw things that ordinarily you wouldn’t think of as related, but . . . yet . . . to me it made sense. Sort of a metaphor for the universe, where things are not necessarily what they seem, where you can say one thing and mean something else. So you never know what you’re gonna find.
 ”Before you is an exhibit documenting the remarkable history of the scientific discovery of an equally remarkable creature, the .”

 ”Finally, however, in the early morning of August 18th at 4: 13 a.m., Griffith’s instruments recorded the event that the team had been awaiting. The number three wall had received an impact of the magnitude of ten to the third ergs, twelve feet above the forest floor. Precisely at the spot indicated by the seismometer, Griffith’s x-ray viewer found, at a depth of seven and one eighth inches, the first  ever contained by man, eternally frozen in a mass of solid lead. This exhibit is made possible by the men and women of the Sin Wing Corporation.”
 He was a real pioneer.
 How did you hear about this?
 We actually ran across all of this material of Griffith’s in a reprint of .

 But I mean, in the bats’ lungs, is that be filled with air or lead?
 Air.
 What happened to the lead that was occupying that space?
 I see what you’re saying.
 It’s exactly that. That’s funny because I was just having this conversation with somebody last week.


 ”Welcome to the Delani Sonnabend Halls of the Museum of Jurassic Technology.”

 ”In his three volume work, , Geoffrey Sonnabend departed from all previous memory research with the premise that memory is an illusion. Forgetting, he believed, not remembering, is the inevitable outcome of all experience.”
 Sonnabend’s work now seems completely forgotten, as does Geoffrey Sonnabend himself. Our Italian visitor tells David that he’s searched everywhere for information. The Library of Congress — nothing. He’s even contacted Northwestern University, where Sonnabend was supposedly once a faculty member. Nothing.. . .
 Where did you find this?
 This material came from UCLA. It’s hard to find.
 Because even the book, his book is . . .
 It’s difficult. Out of print I’m sure.
 You don’t have a copy of it? No?
 No, we don’t have a copy.
 Well, anyway . . .
 Well, I’m glad you’re here.
 Thank you very much.
 ”Sonnabend devised a system of classification of experience based on the division of the planes into four groups, depending on the pitch or ’attitude’ of the plane.”
.
 ”Group one, within seven degrees of arc of vertical. Group two, between eight and 90 degrees of arc. Group three, between 91 and 173 degrees of arc.”
 Although his work received a certain amount of interest when he first published it, it didn’t seem to withstand the test of time, and is not often cited today.



 My name is Siranush Sandaldjian.
 And my name is Levon Sandaldjian and I’m the son of Hagop Sandaldjian.
 Who really did exist?
 He did.
 He still does in our heart. 

 Most of the work he would do would be at night, when everyone was asleep. He would work in between his heartbeats, because when his heart would beat, he would shake his hand.
 And sometimes he had to hold his breath, these are little things we remember now, not to breath for a couple of minutes, or as long as he could hold it, because then what happens is suddenly a piece disappears.






 I wondered some times . . . I wondered how much was David’s imagination or invention. But it doesn’t matter to me. It doesn’t matter. Because it’s a nice little museum. 
 I’m Lawrence Weschler.
