


But, as producer David Isay has discovered, there are still a few relics of the days when Coney Island was the world.
 (): ”Coney Island Chamber of Commerce . . . No, Steeplechase Park closed in 1964. Thank you very much.”
 Welcome to marvelous Coney Island. My name is Mathew Kennedy. I’ve been with the Chamber of Commerce here since 1924.



  Coney Island Chamber of Commerce.

  People call and they want to know the temperature of the water. I ask them to wait a moment and I’ll go down and see. Then I go out and take a wiz and come back and tell them 60 degrees or 70 or 68 or whatever number comes to mind, and they seem to be satisfied and thank me.

  ”Yes? Of course Coney Island still exists. Right. It’s bigger and better than ever. Thank you very much.”


  Right across the street from my office stands the Cyclone roller coaster, which opened in 1927. It’s the largest, fastest, and most thrilling ride in the world. The Cyclone is a monument comparable only to the Eiffel Tower.


 These two screws here, see they loose.

 I take of her, I see after her. I fix her, and I make sure she’s okay. I love the cyclone, like you would love your wife.



Moments later, the brakes are released, and a chain hauls the cars, groaning and creaking, ever so achingly slowly up an enormous hill. At the top, for that brief instant, the world freezes, the heart stops as the view of that terrifying straight-down endless drop comes into focus. Then it happens.


 The ride is about a minute and forty seconds of fun, of natural fun.

 It goes up a hill, it goes down a hill, it goes up a camel back, it goes up a big hill, it goes down another hill, up another camel back, ’round a curve, back into the station.
Sometime, when peoples get off the roller coaster they throw up, they be shaking, and sometime they just fall, like something hit ’em, like they died. They just lay there, they eyes closed. It’s a hell of a ride to be on.

And even though the decrepit Cyclone may seem to bend and strain and shudder through each screeching ride it gives, even though it may look like it’s got one leg in roller coaster heaven, if you bother to ask Walter Williams, the roller coaster man, he’ll tell you that he knows better.
The Cyclone will stand for. It will be here as long as peoples is here. And as long as peoples is here, I feel though that the world will be here, and as the world is here I think that the Cyclone will be here too, as long as it has someone to take care of it the way that I do.
(”Coney Island Baby” fades in.)
  Coney Island has always meant sweets. Everything from the Eskimo Pie to Saltwater Taffy was invented here. There was once a dozen candy stores operating up and down Surf Avenue. Today, the only one remaining here is Coney Island’s first — Phillip’s Candy.

 Alright, who’s next, who’s next? Fresh made, we got ’em.



 There are some candy shops that make fudge, or they make chocolates, or they make taffies. But this candy shop makes everything and we make it from scratch.

 We make a coconut cream bar, which is chops of coconuts in cream, and then we dip the whole thing in chocolate. We make the cashew balls — that’s a marshmallow dipped in caramel, and then we roll them in cashews, or walnuts, or pecans. We make a chop suey, which is coconut brittle, with nuts and raisins. And the list goes on and on and on. It never stops.

 That’s two, three, four, five is ten, ten is twenty. Have a good weekend, eh? Thank you.

 This is the place for good stuff. The best. You come here, we’re gonna make you happy. If we don’t make you happy, we’ll keep working on you until we find something that will make you happy. You’re not gonna leave Phillip’s Candies until you are happy.

  Just across the street from Philip’s Candies stands the original Nathan’s Famous Hot Dogs stand. I remember well that historic day in 1916 when Nathan Hanwerker and his wife Ida opened Nathan’s. Today, thanks to them, the hot dog is an American tradition.



 My name is Sol Seiderman.
 My name is Sol Gaber.
 We’ve been working as waiters for Nathan’s for the past forty years.
.
 When people come in they think that Sol and Sol are brothers. It’s just like a husband and wife, after they been married for many years that they start to look like each other. And the same thing with us.
 
 It doesn’t look like a fancy restaurant in a sense like you’re going to a really fancy restaurant, but the atmosphere.
 You come in here and you’re comfortable, nothing special here. We don’t decorate the place for you.
 You feel at home when you come to Nathan’s dining room. You feel at home more than if you go to what you call a beautiful place, and that’s the whole thing.
 Sol can you pick up sixteen franks for me please, two orders of French-fries and four cokes.
 Okay Sol, sixteen franks, four orders of French-fries . . .

 You’d be amazed at some of the biggest movie stars that you think would go to the finest restaurant, and yet they wind up at Nathan’s eating a hotdog.
 I’ve served personally Marilyn Monroe, Doris Day, Edward G. Robinson.
 I never dreamt in my life that Sol would meet people like that.
 
 How do you do ladies?

: Ma’am, listen to me, it comes out cheaper for you. It’s a special, honestly. I want to explain it to you.

 Attention please, attention. Give me fourteen franks, four orders of French-fries with cheese, two with . . .

 There’s nothing like Nathan’s franks. It’s 100% beef. And I mean entirely 100% beef, in other words there’s no mixture in there. And the taste of the frank is really, it’s very hard to describe, but it’s so delicious.
 We serve a skin hotdog, which is much better than the skinless hotdog. So when you eat the hotdog it actually cracks in your mouth.
 Ninety-nine percent of the people that come here don’t put nothing at all on the franks except mustard. Because people want to really get the taste of the frank.
 We don’t have sauerkraut ma’am.
 What do you mean you don’t have sauerkraut?
 Ma’am, listen to me. If you have sauerkraut on a frank you could eat any frank. You wouldn’t know the difference. This way you taste it.

 You know the funny about the whole thing is that all I am here is a waiter. And yet I’m proud. I’m proud of the fact that I work here. I’ve served here families that came in with children, and then I served the children that came in with their own families. And of course when I retire, I certainly will miss it. And I’ll miss Sol.

 Bye-bye.
 Take care, bye-bye, hope you call again.

 Well, I certainly hoped you’ve enjoyed your visit to Coney Island. If you’re ever close by, stop in and see us. We’ll be here. I’m Matt Kennedy, from the Coney Island Chamber of Commerce.
