Elisa Seeger (ES) and Bobby Seeger Jr.
ES: Aidan had curly dirty-blond hair, giant blue eyes. He always liked to be fancy as he called it–dress shirts and ties. And he had a really strong personality and he could not be told what to do. You know, we’d find him at 7:30 in the morning watching cartoons with a bowl of M&Ms.
BS: And he’d be drinking a can of Coca-Cola. A lot of it’s cute, you know, you could be pissed, and then all of a sudden, it’s like, you turn around and just be chuckling. But um, we didn’t know that he was sick. You’d see him, just sit at the kitchen table in the house with his homework, and I’d come back, you know, thirty minutes later and he’s not done anything more than just write his name.
ES: He was having trouble reading, putting the book right up to his eye, and we just said, ”Oh, he needs glasses.” So we went to the pediatrician who recommended a neurologist. The MRI came back and the technician didn’t even know what he was looking at there was so much white matter on the brain.
BS: How about the doctor, the one that said it, ”Hey, your kid is going to die.”
ES: He was 6 and a half at the time and we never told him that he might die. We just said, ”We’re going to get your eyes fixed.” And maybe about a month into it.
BS: No, it wasn’t even a month. I remember laying on that little close-up couch, and Aidan waking up going, ”Hey daddy. Daddy, where are you? I can’t see.” I just climbed right into bed and cradled him. I couldn’t even cry. And it wasn’t long after that, that everything just went.
ES: His ability to walk, to eat–everything.
BS: And then uh, after having not spoke or anything for…
ES: For about a month.
BS: He woke up in the middle of the night, and he was just like, ”Mommy, I want some Sprite.”
ES: And he drank the whole soda. I just kept saying, ”I don’t want you to go back to sleep.” But um…
BS: He never talked again. Towards the end, they had called and said his breathing was failing, ”You should come here.” So when I walked in the room, I didn’t like what I seen because I didn’t want him to go through it no more. And I lay down in bed with him and had my arms holding him, you know, telling him that he’s going. And then that was it. You know, born in Brooklyn and he died in Brooklyn. And uh, we wanted him buried in a little cemetery…
ES: That I could walk to.
BS: …it’s only a couple blocks from the house and picked out a nice little spot on a hill. And it’s crazy, with the cold weather, he’s got the greenest, greenest spot.
 
Web Extra:Elisa Seeger (ES), Nick Hunter (NH) and Lindsay Hunter (LH) 
ES: How did you feel when the doctor called you with the results?
NH: I was just in complete and utter shock. And then we google searched it, even though the doctor is like, ”No don’t look it up,” started reading about Aidan’s Law and about you guys.
LH: And I said, ”We have to find Aidan’s mom and just hug her.”
NH: Yep.
ES: I’m thankful to have met both of you and Matthew.
NH: We wanted to see you around on elf the children that you have helped save.
I mean, I del like I owe you everything.
LH: You didn’t even know Matthew and you fought for his life. And there’s no way to repay that.
