

The next day, once again my flight was delayed. And that’s when I found an empty ticket counter. I sat behind it and I started sweating bullets, rocking back and forth,  hyperventilating.
I hadn’t had an episode like that probably since I was like 11.
And, uh, that’s when you came up.
 You were sitting on the floor and you looked really upset. Do you remember what I first said?
 I don’t remember a whole lot, ’cause for me, in the midst of a meltdown, my brain literally feels like it’s on fire, with a vice grip around it, just getting tighter and tighter. I have a hard time comprehending the simplest sentences. I just, uh, feel like I’m on a planet all by myself.
But when you crouched down beside me and asked me what was going on, my feelings started to change. Having someone actually recognize that I was human and that I was there — it meant the world to me. I didn’t feel as fragile.I had someone on my team.
 I remember letting the crew know that you were very uneasy about getting on the airplane, and I brought the captain over to hopefully, you know, give you another boost of confidence.
 Yeah. That’s when I made up my mind, “Yeah, I’m getting on this plane.” You walked me onto the flight, I was able to board before anybody else to get situated and just kind of have some peace.
So David, did you wonder what happened to me after I finally got on the plane?
 Yeah, it’s actually funny you should ask that. You know, I have access to our computer system at home, and I followed you.
 ()
 I saw that second flight did have a little bit of a delay, but it showed that you had stayed on board and got through. I was very happy about that.
 You didn’t really know much about autism that day in the airport. But you connected on a human level. And, uh, you can’t lose in that situation. What you did really changed my life.
Um, knowing that since this was such a, a difficult meltdown — and one of the worst I’ve ever had. That since I got through that, I can pretty much get through anything.
