

 One of my slogans out here at this place is ”When you’re in the mood to say I do, and you really care, think of Kipperman’s Wedding Chapel, where love is always in the air.”


 This is a 25-caliber pistol, $79.95 . . .
People always kid me and say, ”This is the only place in town you can get married and buy a gun all at the same time.”
This is a .38 right here. Boy, that will stop ’em.

 There’s too many memories.

 I woke up one morning in a cold sweat. What am I going to do with those wedding rings? So God spoke to me and said, ’Maybe a wedding chapel will be a good thing to put in that pawnshop.’

 Oh, so happy to see you here, right on time for your wedding.

 Come right in here.

 Stand right here.


 Dearly beloved, we are gathered here today to join Lucy and Ernest in marriage. They’re getting married today. Why? Because they’re in love with each other.

 I have a wedding gown here that if they’d like to rent, that’ll be $20.
If they want to have a videotape of the wedding, I’ve got a video camera I can come in here and shoot it with it. One of my employees can do it for, say, $49.95. That’s a good deal.
 Till death do us part.
 Till death do us part.

 Okay, then by the authority of the State of Texas, and my authority as a chaplain, and as a minister, and by the still higher authority of the word of God, I now pronounce you husband and wife. Whom God . . .

 Whom God has joined together let no man put asunder. Ernest, you may now kiss the bride.
Well, congratulations. I have Mr. Ernest and Lucy Duran. Thank you very much for letting me officiate. Thank you, Mrs. Duran. Now stand right there . . .



 I have to change the cake out about every four or five months because people try to eat the cake.
 Have you ever had anyone actually get married and then come in later and hock their wedding ring?
 Well, once in a while they’ll come in when they get down on their luck, but most people, they pick up their wedding rings up after they pawn them. Once in a while, they’ll come in and tell me they don’t want their wedding rings anymore because they think they’re gonna get a divorce and do I do annulments. And I say, ”No, I don’t do annulments. My weddings are always for better or for worse.”

 I guess we don’t want to loose each other. But by the time he comes out he’ll be 50-something years old and I’ll be 50-something years old, but I love him. I love him very much, and he loves me too, so I guess that’s what counts.

 We’ll have to do this one across the counter.
 It don’t matter, as long as I’m married to the man I really love.
 Oh, is this the Eastham Unit? Is Warden Martin there?

 Dearly beloved, we’re gathered here today to join Michael and Rosario in marriage.

 Rosario, do you take Michael to be your lawfully wedded husband, to live with him according to God’s holy ordinances?
 I do.
 And we have a stand in for the groom Mr. David Isay. You do vow to take care of her and do everything according to God’s holy ordinances? Say, ”I do.”
 I do.
 Well then, by the authority of the State of Texas, and my authority as a chaplain, I now pronounce you husband and wife. Whom God has joined together, let no man put asunder. Congratulations.



 I appreciate it a whole lot. If my husband was here too, he would thank you, too.
