David Ned (DN) and Darius Clark Monroe (DCM)
DN: I had a little dog, a little white German Shepherd, and I was living in an apartment. And the manager’s kids was kicking my dog. I talked to the manager about it and about 10 o’clock that night, her husband came knocking on the door. And he says, ”If you got any problem, you need to talk to me about it.” I said, ”Are you the manager?” ”No, my wife is the manager.” And I said, ”Well then I got nothing to say to you. I already talked to your wife.” And he said, ”Well I’ll tell you what, in two weeks I want you moved and your dog gone.” I got hot then. He walked downstairs, I closed my door and I went to my bedroom and I got my gun. What a gun does, it talks to you. Things that you’d normally say I’m not going to do or I’ll just let it pass, gun talks to you and says, You don’t have to take that. So my wife was putting chain locks on the doors and she’s by the door, ”I don’t want you to go.” So I ended up saying, ”Okay, alright, forget it.” But I called the manager of the company and I told him about the incident. And in less than a week, they were dismissed. Then I came home one day and I found my little dog was poisoned. And in my mind, he poisoned my dog. I said, I am going to get him. But I didn’t see him no more. And then, I was riding down the street, and this car passed me by. And I saw this face and I had a flashback of who he was. So, I did one of the highway patrol specials, I ran him all on the curb, jumped out of my car, snatched his door open and that was the wrong man. He said, ”What is wrong with you?” I said, ”I’m sorry. You look like somebody I don’t like.” And believe it or not, I took the guy, I said, ”Come on let’s go to the club,” I went and bought him a drink. (laughs) You know, I was dead wrong.
DCM: Yeah.
DN: And I know that if I would’ve had the gun, I’d have shot that man. At that point, I knew that my anger was so bad, if I don’t control this thing, I’m going to hurt somebody or somebody’s going to hurt me. So I said, ”I’m done. I can’t pack no gun no more.” And it took that kind of thing to get me right.
