(Sounds of steel mill.)
:
. . . worked at the plate mill, US Steel, the tin mill . . .
. . . burning steel, pouring steel . . .
I’ve worked in the steel mill and I’ve worked in the mines.
I, myself, I was working in the mines.
I started as a floor sweeper, and I went from that to a crane hooker, went from a crane hooker to a chipper, went from a chipper to a . . .
I moved to Jefferson County in February of ’41. Second of February. I got employed by United States Steel the second day of March, one month from the day I came.
And when they began to get their jobs here. Steel mills, coalmines, railroads, they had the talent. They didn’t know what they had.
(Singing ”Over there . . .”)
(Sounds of steel mill. Montage continues.)
Now that was hot and hard work.
Hard work. You couldn’t find no easy job.
Five minutes after you start on your job, you is wet. I mean sweat. And you stayed wet. Wasn’t no way to stay dry — it’s too much heat.
You couldn’t hear nothing but ”RRRRhhhhhh” all day long and when you get home at night that’s all you could hear.
Mens would be tired, can’t hardly put one foot before the other.
If you fall down on that floor if you didn’t have someone to come pick you up, you wouldn’t even get up. You couldn’t make it. didn’t have enough energy to get up. They come get you up, drag you out, until you sorta revived, and then they bring you back.
You work be so hard you’d be depressed, wondering if you can make it through the day and all that. If you started humming your little number, it look like your work go easier
A lot of times I’d just go to singing to keep from crying, I reckon.
You begin to hum something. And you get to humming good and it may not sound so good to you but someone else hears it and say, ”Hey, I didn’t know you could sing. Hit that again. Hit it again, I’ll help you out.” And he’ll join in with you. Then another’ll walk by and, ”Man, that sounds good,” and he’ll join in. You fool around then you got four or five right there together, making harmony. That’s where the groups begin to start. Just on the job.
(Singing ”Let me ride . . .”)
(Four Eagles sing ”Not gonna ride on the rainy tide . . .”)
: You are listening to the sound of the Four Eagle Gospel Singers, one of the oldest musical groups in the country. My name is Joe Watson and I have been the lead singer for the Four Eagles since 1946.
(Song continues.)
Jefferson County Alabama has been the heartland of a cappella gospel singing in this country ever since the 1920s. My group, the Four Eagles, was formed back in 1938 at the US Steel plant in Fairfield, Alabama, where I worked for nearly 50 years.
(Singing ”He’s a friend of mine . . .”)
There is one group that has been around Jefferson County even longer than we have – the Sterling Jubilee Gospel Singers. They have been together now for more than 60 years.
(Sound of members of the Sterling Jubilees greeting each other.)
Every Wednesday the Sterling Jubilees gather together for their weekly rehearsal at a small wooden church near downtown Bessemer. At these meetings, the group still follows the same routine that they have ever since they started singing. As always, the rehearsal opens up with a prayer.
 : For God is the kingdom, and the power, and the glory. Forever. Amen.(together, praying)
:
He that giveth to the poor lendeth to the Lord.
Honor thy father and thy mother that thy days may be longer in the land which the Lord, thy God, gives thee.
Lift up your head . . .
Now we gonna open up with a little song. I’m gonna ask Brother Reese to sing. Come over here, Brother Baritone.
(Singing ”Oh Hallelujah. I have been running ever since I made a start . . .”)
: Like most groups in the area, the Sterling Jubilees came out of Jefferson County steel mills. The group was formed back in 1929 at the company quarters of the Bessemer Pipe plant. Things was very different in the steel mills and coalmines back when the Sterlings first formed. During those early years, the pay was terrible and the mines and mills were pitifully dangerous.
(Singing ”Well, I ain’t been to heaven . . .”)
But all that began to change when the unions arrived. First the coalmines were organized in the 1930s. Then in 1944 the United Steelworkers of America arrived in Jefferson County. The gospel groups did whatever they could to help the unions along. No group was closer to the union than the Sterling Jubilees. During those early days, the Sterlings would sing every Saturday night down at the union hall. John Alexander, the manager and lead singer of the Sterlings, says that was a big help.
: If you sounded good, somebody gonna  knock on the door. ”Who is it?” ”I don’t want nothing, but could I just come in and listen a minute?” ”Yeah, come on in.” He gonna pull the door up behind him, pull his hat off, walk in and take a seat. First thing you know you got half a hall of people, wanting to hear you sing — and then they went on and joined the union.(knocks on table)
: Because they were so close to the Steelworkers Union, for many years the Sterling Jubilees were known simply as the CIO Singers. That stands for the Congress of Industrial Organizations.
(Sterling Jubilees singing ”We belong to the CIO . . .”)
In 1952, Philip Murray, the founder and president of both the CIO and the United Steelworkers of America, died. Workers across this country went into mourning. Tenor singer Henry Holson remembers that the Sterling were moved to write a song.
 : Let the spirit of Phillip Murray live on and on. Let his spirit live right on. Let the spirit of Phillip Murray live on and on. God have called Mr. Murray home. God have called Mr. Murray home . . .(singing)
(Recording of Sterling Jubilees singing ”God has called Mr. Murray home . . .” fades in.)
: The Sterlings went into the studio and recorded this song. It was their first record ever. ”The Spirit of Phillip Murray” was released nationally and inspired workers from coast to coast.
: Men, women, and children cried when they heard the sad news Mr. Murray had died. He was the CIO’s loss, but he’s heavens gain. The day of resurrection, we’ll see him again. Now good God Almighty, my best friend is gone. I want you boys to help me just to sing this song. Let the spirit of Phillip Murray live on and on. Live right on and on.
: The news was just getting out. Just like when Christ said, ”Go tell it on the mountain, that Jesus Christ been born.” Well, the news had to get out.
(Song continues ”Let the spirit of Phillip Murray live . . .”)
(Fades back to the Sterling Jubilees’ rehearsal.)
: In the bank we have 743 dollars and 31 cents and that make . . .
(Fades out.)
: Weekly rehearsal for the Sterling Jubilees is more than just singing practice. Like other old time gospel groups, the Sterlings have strict rules and by-laws. Each member of the group holds an elected office. For instance, bass singer Sam Lewis is the critic for the Sterling Jubilees.
: My job is to see if everybody is dressed correct and on time. If they be late, I’m gonna fine them. Now that’s my job.
(Sound of rehearsal resumes.)
: If it’s moved and seconded, and all approve without any corrections, and all are satisfied, you’ll say ”Aye.”
(Group echoes ”Aye.”)
And so we’ll have it. So now . . .
: At the end of each weekly rehearsal, the Sterling Jubilees gather in a circle, join hands, and close out, just as they always have.
 : May the lord watch between me and thee while we’re absent. One from another. Let’s all say together this evening children, Ahhh-men. Goodnight(singing, echoing each other)
(All laugh.)
(Laughter fades to sounds outside the coal mine as work begins.)
: While all members of the Sterling Jubilees retired long ago, there are some members of my group, the Four Eagles, who are still working. Like John Lawrence — who replaced one of our original members back in 1963.
Lawrence is a coal miner in Tuscaloosa, Alabama. Five nights a week he heads down more than 2,000 feet into the deepest coal mine in North America.
(Sound of Lawrence being given instructions at work.)
Lawrence operates a coal-cutting machine.
And, as we once did, Brother Lawrence sometimes sings on the job.
 : Mountains get high, I will live for Jesus. Valleys get low, and I will live for Jesus. My women get dark, and I will live for Jesus . . .(singing)
(His singing continues under his speaking.)
A song can uplift you when nothing else can. I’ve had it happen to me so many times.
(His singing fades back up.)
That God has been so good to me. On Friday evening he died on Calvary. ’Cause I got a mind to live for Jesus. Oh a mind, oh a mind, yeah, every one of my, one of my days.
(Sounds of flipping through a radio dial, then settling on a station.)
: It’s time now for the Four Eagle Gospel Singers. They’ve been singing for over 50 years now. For all of the sick and the shut-in all over the state of Alabama — Birmingham and Bessemer. Getting ready to celebrate their 53rd anniversary. Our very own, Four Eagle Gospel Singers. Good morning, fellas.
: Good Morning, radio land. This is your own Four Eagle Gospel Singer Brother Lawrence.
(Lawrence sings ”I’m coming Lord, I’m coming Lord. I’m coming on home . . .”)
: At six every Sunday morning, myself and the rest of the Four Eagle Gospel Singers arrive the studio of WENN in Birmingham for our weekly live radio program. We’ve been broadcasting now for 50 years.
(Singing continues.)
While the airwaves used to be full of live gospel music on Sunday mornings, especially in Alabama, we are just about the last gospel group in the entire country that still has a regular live broadcast.
: We’d like to send this program special out to Mamma Georgia who’s been trailing the Four Eagle Gospel Singers for over 53 years. She’s on the ill list this morning, and our heart and our mind go out to Mamma Georgia. And also we’d like to send this program out to Pat Reynolds . . .
: After all these years we have quite a devoted following. Our listeners seem to take the dedication part of our program very seriously. This is singer and coal miner John Lawrence.
: You have people that on Sunday morning they listening, and if you don’t call they name, your phone be jumping off the hook when you get home. ”You didn’t call my name. I was listening. Why didn’t you call my name?” Everybody wants their name to be called because they want you to know that they listening to gospel music.
(Singing ”Up above my head Lord, I hear singing in the air . . .”)
: The a cappella style does not have the popularity it once did in Jefferson County. Years ago, when musical instruments became popular with gospel groups, singers started to drift away from the style. One reason is that a cappella singing is just too difficult. Again, Brother John Lawrence.
: It’s much easier singing with music because it covers up a whole lot. With us, everything got to be right at all times. Or you can tell it.
(Singing ”Tell me have you been dipped, dipped in the water, tell me have you been washed, washed in the blood of the lamb . . .”)
: Really I love for people to hear the words of what I’m saying because every song carries a message, and I like to get the message over to people. See, I rather sing one song where people can really understand what I’m saying than to get up there with music, sing ten and nobody know what you said. So you still haven’t gotten through to them.
(Singing ”Tell me have you been washed . . .”)
: You’ve been listening to the Four Eagle Gospel Singers. Join us again next Sunday, at the same time, six until six-thirty, for our very own Four Eagle Gospel Singers. This is WENN, Birmingham, Alabama. I’m Reverend Ron. Good morning everyone. It’s six-thirty in the city.
(Radio music fades into crowd sounds.)
: Later that day, after the broadcast of our radio program, a few hundred people joined us at church in Brownsville, Alabama, as they do each year to commemorate all our years of singing together.
: Let every heart say Amen. Let’s say it again. Let’s say it again. One for the father, one for the son, and one for the Holy Spirit.
All right, we’re here for one purpose and that is to help celebrate the well-earned 53rd anniversary of the one and only, the famous Four Eagles of Birmingham, Alabama.
(Applause.)
(Singing ”Walk that milky white way . . .”)
: For a cappella gospel singers in Alabama, anniversaries are very important. Groups come from as far away as Georgia and Mississippi to join you, and each of the groups that comes to sing at your anniversary, then expects you to go and sing at theirs.
Today, most of the old-fashioned gospel groups have grown very old, although there is some hope for the future — a couple of young quartets, who are real good. Such as the four young ladies from Demopolis, Alabama who call themselves the Gospel Harmonettes. They are one of the finest sounding groups anyone around here has ever heard.
 : I know that there’s a cross, for me, for me, for me. I know it was Jesus, picked me up . . .(singing)
: The Gospel Harmonettes also know what it’s like to come from hardworking backgrounds. They spend their weeks stitching clothing in a garment factory down in Uniontown, Alabama.
 : Oh, he picked me up. Oohhh, I know it was Jesus, I know it was Jesus. I know it was Jesus, saved my soul . . .(singing)
(Applause.)
: And now, ladies and gentlemen, the word has come to me that there was some concern whether the honorees were going to sing tonight. Some of us came to honor them as well as to hear them sing. So guys I’m afraid you not gonna be able to get away with that cool you playing. You got to work. Ladies and gentlemen, the Four Eagle Gospel Singers. Give it to them.
: Let the church say Amen, let it all say amen again. You know friends I’m just one of the happiest persons in this world right now — it just make me good to look at all my many good friends in the face here this afternoon. Let us say amen again.
(He begins to sing and others join him. ”Talking about a man named Jesus, that man called Jesus. Talk about Jesus, a friend of mine . . .)
: To the Four Eagle Gospel Singers, we wish to say to you on this, your 53rd anniversary: may God ever bless you. Some have come and some have gone, and some are still here that began when the beginning was. And we’re just grateful to God for you for keeping the tradition alive, because one of these days, all of us are gonna  in that heavenly choir and we want you to continue until God calls us home. May God bless you and may he keep you, is our prayer.sing a cappella
(Four Eagles continue singing, ”I sing and I shout. You know, the tears stream on out. Jesus . . .”)
:  a cappellaRest assured, we will continue to sing. We all know about work, and praising God’s name is a job you just don’t retire on. For us men in the Four Eagles and the Sterling Jubilees, nothing compares with the feeling that we get when we lift up our voices in that sweet harmony.
:
Seem like you can feel the hair standing up on your head.
You just feel like you floatin’. Just floatin’ in the air.
Look like you want to cry or you wanna laugh or do something.
Now that’s an inner feeling. That’s a feeling that God give you.
I know that’s the Lord.
That spirit – you just feel the spirit. You just feel so good, you don’t never want to stop.
(Singing, ”Can’t you feel God moving . . .”)
: I’m Joe Watson from the Four Eagle Gospel Singers.
(Singing, ”I’m feeling you down in my soul . . .” and applause.)
