AC: When you got back into the Parish what was the first thing you did, you return to your home,
RC: Yeah, return to the house, and see what we can do. the whole house had burnt down, and it just was a straight disaster, and I said somewhere somehow, someday I’ll be able to put it back together.
AC: Well, I’m 77 years old, Roy, and how old are you?
RC: 83.
AC: You 83. And from what i’m looking around here, at St. Bernard Parish, it looks like we ain’t going to make it.
RC: We may not, may not make it, we may not make, we holding on, that’s all, you know, just hang on, you hold on, we’ll get it, say a little prayer, and we’ll get it. But anyhow,
AC: They taking so long. you got 5 or 7 years, maybe 10.
RC: I hope, I hope.
AC: I got 10 maybe. maybe don’t got 6 months. We can’t even start doing anything.
RC: But we gotta do the best we possibly can to survive. And hope for the best.
AC: Well, I do thank god for the people at the tent. When I came back the few little place where they had people in the parish was tents. and these people was feeding like 1200 people a day, and they’re all volunteers from probably all over the country. I’ve never seen anybody do so much for the people of the parish as those people…
RC: You know what I like about those people? every now and then, they get you talking so nice, hugging each other, and you get a little squeeze and all, to me it’s so unusual that they do that. I think we’re gonna make it, cause as hard as we been through so far, rough as it was and we rode through, even with the agony, but we hanging in there, and that’s what really counts.
AC: my brothers are closer to me now than before the storm. Even though we were close we are closer now since we all went through this.
RC: From now all we all going to be tight, real tight.
AC: That’s it.
RC: Even though the storm went through, we’re gonna make it, because if I need something I’m gonna come to you right now, and if you need something, come see me
AC: that’s it, that’s it.
RC: we’re gonna do alright.
