Ruben Salazar (RuS) and Rachel Salazar (RaS)
RuS: I get to work, first thing I do is turn on my email. And I discovered this one that I didn’t know who it was from.
RaS: My coworker sent you that email by mistake.
RuS: And I was like, ”Here’s another R.P. Salazar. Imagine that.” And so I forwarded it. I wrote a little message: Hi, Rachel, it seems as if this message came to me instead of you. I’m in Waco, Texas, USA. Have a great day. PS, how’s the weather there in Bangkok?
RaS: I replied to you, Weather in Bangkok is lovely. Gracias, Rachel.
RuS: So began a chain of emails.
RaS: The first couple of emails you started describing yourself and that kind of encouraged me to be open about myself too.
RuS: I was excited that this person is halfway around the world. It’s kind of like sending a letter in a bottle. I happened to hover my mouse over your name on one of those emails and a picture of you popped up and I was like, Wow, she’s really beautiful! How can I make this picture bigger? [Laughs] I would stay up late at night, which was your morning, and we would chat for four or five hours.
RaS: You had started to play an important role in my life even before I consciously realized it. I knew that I was falling in love, but there’s still that tiny little bit of doubt that this might not work because we’re 8,000 miles away from each other. But at some point I finalized my plans to visit the US.
RuS: And you didn’t tell anyone.
RaS: Because everyone would tell me, You’re foolish to go halfway across the world to meet some strange guy you have not met. That would be crazy.
RuS: And on my end, every relative, every friend, co-worker–everyone knew.
RaS: We were together for eight days.
RuS: We were dancing one night and you mentioned something to the effect that no one…
RaS: I said that you were the sweetest guy I’ve ever met.
RuS: I knew right at that moment–I need to say something or do something so that I don’t lose her. And so I got on my knee and asked you to marry me.
RaS: Deep in my heart I knew it was coming and it was the right thing and it was the best thing.
RuS: People didn’t believe me, and some of them had second thoughts for me.
RaS: They now all tell us, You’re perfect for each other. You found the right match.
